Item #: SCP-001

Object Class: Sampo1

Special Containment Procedures: Remain calm. Stand by and await instructions.

Description: [DATA PERMANENTLY EXPUNGED]

The loop has closed.

The last speck of empty space on the Earth's surface that wasn't affected by the Tower has been swallowed up. Maybe there are a few underground bunkers full of real humans, but they're on borrowed time before they succumb to the ontological enforcement of whimsy.

Other than me, nobody knows where they actually were two months ago - only false memories.

Even I've been affected, partially. There have been a few times where I accidentally stated my name as "Flipsy-Sue", or that my father was a jolly butterfly farmer. The only reason the important memories are still intact is either because of my pirated clearance on this thumb drive. Or maybe I'm just that angry.

Either way, I can't wallow in my rage long enough to be idle. I know what I need to do, and even the suggestion of gradually forgetting my purpose terrifies me.

So, while I still can, I'll commit these thoughts to memory, going over them every night until my task is finished. I considered writing them down, but a certain someone's remote-controlled eyes could be glancing over my shoulder the minute I've written something compromising…

I must never forget the woman who betrayed me.

I must never forget the world as it was — as it should have remained.

I must never forget PIPER, Veekat, Vajrayana, the Seneschal, Lucerne, Milne, or anything else.

And the day I forgive any of it, may my bloodstream go septic — may I fall rotting alive where I stand.

It would be nicer than I'd deserve. For at that point, I'd be one of them.


## Act 1


↷

The morning sunlight creeps through the curtains of your dining-room on the nicest Tuesday morning of the year. Uninvited, but never unwelcome - just like anyone else bold enough to bang on your nice brass door-knocker.
You watch with unease as dust drifts through the sunbeams. You've a great deal of spring cleaning to catch up on. Even your broom - that's the little toothpick in the corner with a few wool fibers tied on one end - is gathering dust. At this rate, you'll need another broom to dust off your broom! And what if that broom-broom comes to need a broom-broom-broom, or...
Get a hold of yourself! Check your planner - you'll clean after supper this evening. Every task looks infinite until it reaches its inevitable conclusion.
Now, then - you've just finished your full Crinkletonian breakfast. Two droplets of piping hot Earl Grey, two barleycorns, two pickled grass tips, two heaping slices of a single raspberry, and two droplets of custard. Positively top-shelf!
Perhaps it's strange to have everything in twos. But having one of any meal gets you jittery - like it wears its fleeting nature on its sleeve. Having a crumpet-in-waiting gives the illusion of abundance even when it's gone.
...
Overthinking's your only vice, but by your whiskers, it's got you in its grasp. Sometimes, it feels like you're the only field mouse in all Crinkleton who doesn't know how to sit down and listen to the wind blowing.
But if you can't relax, at least you can try. It's a day beginning with T, which means you're off-duty as the postmouse - and the day is young.
Perhaps a morning constitutional would be prudent. Maybe you'll even see Miss Polly Twitchers on her way to her job at her uncle's cheese shop, and she can take her first glance at your nice blue waistcoat. She'd give you that look again. That same look in her eyes had its sure-fire way of making you feel like scones out of the oven...
...
...might be a bit late to mention, but your name is Mr. Gregory Sniffings and you're a little brown field mouse in a waistcoat and bowler hat. You live in the town of Crinkleton with some other little brown field mice, and maybe some bunnies. This decision is irreversible.
You look like this:

• ...what if I don't want to be a field mouse?

What if, indeed? Now there's a riddle for you.
In your youth, your father (The Right Honourable Lord Phineas Sniffings, Esq.) seemed rather keen on you following his foosteps as a town magistrate. He even bought a powdered wig of your own for once you came of age, the silly goose!
But over time, you demonstrated such passion and dedication for helping the mail go hither and thither. So much, in fact, that even your father's obstinance wavered, and he gave you his unconditional blessing to become a postmouse.
What if you could change further? What if you wanted to become something other than a field mouse? Perhaps a hamster? A rat? Or - dare I even suggest - a gerbil?
Of course, the average mouse on the street would call the prospect nonsense! But those clever owls at the University of Wal-Mart have their way of surprising us with the secrets of naturalism, opening minds all over the tri-county area. So what if they found a way to try on a new species as if it were a smoking-jacket?
What a riveting idea! Perhaps you'll speak of it with Mr. Horace-in-the-Hole over teatime. He'll have something interesting to say about it for certain.

Oh, well. Best be off.

The light stings your eyes for a second as the door opens. But one sniff, and everything's all right. There was a light rain last night, and the scent of petrichor absolutely has little petrichor fairies in it that like kissing the insides of wee noseys. That's the only way it could smell so relaxing, even for you.
You toddle across the four bottlecaps that mark the path to your door. The dandelion in your front lawn casts a looming shadow, giving your eyes ample time to adjust to the sunlight.

Time to go.
• Right! Let's be off!


↶
↷
So here you are, once again sauntering along the pebble-paved pathway outside your cottage at No. 18 Muffin Drive.
Mr. Squirrelsbury passes by in his wagon, pulled by a team of his finest beetles. Carrying some cornflour to the market cross, no doubt. He always knows where he's going, that Squirrelsbury. Were it only you had your affairs a tenth as together as he did, then maybe you'd be friends...
Tip your hat to Mr. Squirrelsbury.
Oh, and there's Mr. Horace-in-the-Hole! Strangest rabbit you've ever met, but he's one of your oldest mates. He's been digging an intricate burrow in his yard for years now - not for his family, mind you, they keep to their above-ground estate. But he seems to love burrows for the sake of burrows themselves.
In fact, just as you pass him, he's already started work on that second sub-burrow he'd been going on about! Hearing your watch chain, he peeks his head out and waves. "Well, if it ain't Greg! You're lookin' sharp today."
Tip your hat to Mr. Horace-in-the-Hole.
As you near the corner, you can hear Mrs. Moleton, the notorious ill-tempered lunatic, hastily snipping the tips off her moss-bushes.
Good morning, Mrs. Moleton!
And just as you reach the corner of Muffin Drive and Merriweather Boulevard, you see -
Oh.
• Oh, my.

The fair Miss Polly Twitchers, once again in your presence! Her fur's just a twinge longer and six twinges softer than any other field mouse you've met. There she stands in her hat and sundress, darting her head about - as if looking for something.
Your heart beats in double time. You've known her (and fancied her) for over a year now, so every interaction with her carries the nonzero chance of you making some stupid mistake and causing her to despise you.
...you wish you could make sense of thoughts like that, but it seems as if you're the only one in all the town over who still has them.
Either way, there she is. Maybe this could be your big chance!
What will you say to her?

• P-p-pICniCs EXiST, ArEN'T thEY loVErlY.

And just a nanosecond before you throw up from sheer embarassment, she giggles. Your heart's soaring once again. But how long until it crash-lands?
"Well, I'd rather hope picnics exist, you silly thing," she says. "Now, Gregory, if you have a moment, there's something I simply must speak to you about."
• (OH TOMATO SALAD, SHE'S FINALLY SICK OF ME.) S-sure, what is it?"

She clings to her purse nervously with both hands as she speaks.
"You see, Gregory... keep this between us, but there's a bit of a delicate situation I've run into at my uncle's cheese shop. Just yesterday, on my way back from a holiday in Skunksbrook, I saw the most amazing thing on the northeastern highroad. There at the crossroads, just beyond the western thicket - there was wild cheeseflower, sprouting the heartiest cut of white cheddar my eyes ever did deign to witness. It was at least ten times my size!"
• Amazing! Well, surely your uncle's over the Moon about such a find. You could keep the shop running for ages with something that big.

"Oh, Greggy, you know how Uncle Stanley can be. Word of anything good will always be too good for him unless it's right in front of his nose. I even told him where it is to see for himself, but he'd sooner let it rot than potentially waste a quick jog to the northeast!
I want that cheese in our shop, and I know he'll want it. It would save us both a great deal of trouble.
So... that's where you come in."
• So, you want me to carry a piece of cheese that's ten times your size into town? Um...

"No, silly! But you've gone cheese-hunting before. You know the ins and outs of it, where to cut, how to carry it, et cetera. I don't need you to bring back the whole of it, just a big enough chunk that he'll finally know what he's missing! And the very second he sees proof, he'll charter a beetle-cart to haul it over forthwith."
She reaches out and clasps your right hand.
"Oh, Gregory, I loath to ask for a favor during your time off - but would you be so kind as to bring some proof of my find - if it's still there?"
• W-w-well, I'm flattered, but... there's a great deal many more talented cheese hunters than myself in Crinkleton. You'd be better off with an expert, methinks.

"Well, I suppose that's true enough. And I do admire your honesty. It's just..."
She glances to the side. You swear you can see the faintest hint of reddening cheeks under her fur.
"...well, once we've showed the piece to Uncle, I was thinking that perhaps you'd like to share it with me - I-I mean, if you want! I don't mean to impose, really, I... um..."
• (Incomprehensible stuttering gibberish in the affirmative.)

You spin around with a quick wave, sprinting for your house on all fours. (You're not about to find the cheese in your house, but that's where you keep your best cheese-sword.)
From behind, you hear Polly laughing softly at your eagerness. "Then best of luck, Greggy dear!"
• Well that's good, she wishes for my success... but that laugh. Is it becuase I'm earnest? Or am I just a joke to her? Not that I blame her, of course, I'm entitled to no particular reaction, but - I don't know, I just can't help but feel that I make an ass of myself at any given opportunity, and... oh, whatever has become of my life...

ANYWAY, you're on the northeastern highroad now, cheese-sword in tow. Now shut up and have a nice little cheese-hunting adventure before I hit you with my shoe.

Before too long, you're at the very crossroads that Polly spoke of.
Look, there's that towering post in the middle with all different little directional signs. Sunksbrook to the northeast. Due east, that's the University of the Wal-Mart. Southwest, Crinkleton (naturally). Southeast, that's Sparrowville, Mink City, and the seaside resort of Walruston. And to the north, some town you've never heard much about called Dirtsdale.
Finally, to the West, there's no sign, for no road goes there. But there's the thicket, and behind that...
Well, you haven't ruled out the possibility that the cheeseflower could be behind it, but there's a white and beige tower of something-or-other standing in front.

You slip through the thicket silently.
And sure enough, there's the cheeseflower. A thick stem bends over, dangling a hefty cube of cheddar in the air. Polly may have exaggerated the size a bit - it's only about four times her size. But she wants it, and that's what matters.
As for the beige and white lump --
"Hmm. Yes. Fascinating. Yes. ...indeed. Indubitably. Yes. ...mmmyes."
It's a young barn owl. From the university, no doubt. He's staring at the cheeseflower and jotting away little notes with his talon, dipping a claw in his inkwell every so often.
...
Oh, bother. Do you suppose he got a claim on the cheese before you could grab a chunk?
Only one way to find out.
• Pardon me, good Mr. Owl...

"Oh?"
Though his body doesn't move a millimeter, his head turns to face you.
...those eyes.
You're not sure why his eyes fill you body with such a chill, but they do. There can't be any rational basis for it, can there...?
"I'd wager you're a Crinkletonian," he says. "How do you do? The name's Erwin Barnowlby, third-year botany student at UWM. Who might you be?"
• Um... I'm Gregory Sniffings. Is this your cheeseflower?

"Mine? Hmm..."
His head tilts.
"Well, for the time being, it's my specimen. But when I've finished my field notes - that is..."
He scratches a few final marks in his notebook.
"...now that I have finished my notes, it could be anyone's."
• You weren't going to take the cheese home and eat it, were you?

"Me?! Hoo-hoo-hoo, nooo thank you! We owls can't stand cheese. We can't even digest it properly. Sickening stuff! After all..."
He leans toward you, narrowing his eyes.
"...you do know what an owl's favorite snack is, do you not?"
Your blood runs cold.

• ...m-m-mice?

Mr. Barnowlby rears his head back in a furious fit of giggling. He nearly tumbles over, and the only reason he doesn't is because he does a little one-foot hop at the last second.
In a few seconds, he only barely regains his composure to keep talking.
"Hoooo, mercy... Ribald! Positively ribald. I'm terribly sorry, but if that's what you've been taught in the Crinkletonian educational system, then someone needs to write some angry letters yesterday!"
He shakes his head.
"Then let me cure whatever they've poisoned you with. An owl's favorite food is custard! Glorious custard! Granted, an individual owl's tastes might vary when it comes to other foodstuffs. (Some of us even find a few kinds of cheese mildly tolerable.) But shove a bit of custard in front of any owl, and they'll follow you to the ends of the earth!"
Now that you think about it, it is strange that you thought he'd eat a mice.
But there's something inexorable at the back of your mind. Some nagging feeling. Something that makes you twitch away just a little when you catch a glimpse of his open beak.
Owls don't eat mice. And you have no evidence that they do.
But illogical echo tells you... a long time ago, they did. And not only that, they spat out the bones and fur in little pellets.
...
Good Lord, what's wrong with you?! He's a botany student, for God's sake. He wouldn't rip the skin off an onion.
Now, where were we? Ah, yes, custard.
• (Wait a second... I had custard for breakfast this morning. Do I have any left?)
Now that you think about it, you remember impulse-buying a pot of custard larger than yourself. You keep in a dark, cold shed in your yard because it's too big for your house. Just this morning, while you were making breakfast, you said to yourself that you ought to get rid of the stuff quickly before it went bad.
...
This owl's rather large, and he loves custard.
• Take a look at his talons.
Those claws are very large. He could easily pluck the cheese from the cheeseflower and fly it over to - OH!
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THIS MEANS?!
• Mr. Barnowlby, I've got a large amount of custard I need be rid of posthaste. May I ask you a favor?
Barnowlby groans, slapping a wing over his face.
"Hoo-oo-oo-oo, bother... that's what I get for wearing my weakness on my sleeve. Though one pot's hardly a treasure trove, so don't expect me to grant your every wish."
• Well, if you wouldn't mind taking the cheese from this cheeseflower off to Stanley Twitchers' Cheese Shop in Crinkleton... that custard is as good as yours.

He sighs.
"Oh, well, I suppose that's worth a pot of custard - though it had better be good."
With a groan and a flap of his wings, Barnowlby's in the air.
He snatches the cheese from its stem with his right foot.
"Mr. Twitchers' shop, was it? Well, here's hoping he's got a large landing area in front of -"
CHOMP.
• ...?

The owl's pupils shrink into pinpricks. His wings stop beating.
He falls to the ground.
• Mr. Barnowlby? What's wrong?! ...it's not too heavy, is it?

GYAAAAAGH! GET IT OFF GET IT OFF GETITOFF GETITOFFGETITOFF OH GOD HELP ME GET IT OFF!
• So... was that a "yes" or a "no" on the "too heavy" point? Because I'm terribly sorry if it was more than you could carry...

You hear a spitting noise.
The owl's left leg flies through the air, minus its body. A trail of what you're really hoping is strawberry cordial follows it through the air.
Mr. Barnowlby's screams are no longer coherent. He's sobbing and wailing uncontrollably.
The cheese has teeth. It's eating the owl.
• WHAT?!

You take a closer look.
Mr. Barnowlby is prone, twitching, gasping. Blood is dripping from his wide-open beak as he chokes. A large block of white cheddar is currently nuzzling through a cavity it just bit open in his chest, biting off entrails and flipping them away like it's trying to find a piece of dirty laundry in a pile.
...
As far back as you can remember, there has never been one act of intentional violence in Crinkleton's borders. Animals never harmed other animals.
Fighting was a thing for storybooks. It's not that Crinkletonians hate violence - it's that letting violent action follow violent thought never seems worth the effort. Even cheese-hunting was fought against prey that was never alive.
You don't know how to feel. But you think this might have something to do with that weird, nagging thought about what owls once ate.
...
Erwin Barnowlby is dead.

The cheese, baring jaws full of razor-sharp teeth, turns to face you. Its crystalline fangs glisten in the sunlight.
You grip the hilt of the purple toothpick with both hands. The tip wobbles.
• Prepare yourself...


The cheese hops forward, bounding across the dirt toward you.

You dive to your left. (Going right wouldn't have made a difference.)
The cheese follows you as it hops forward, but it turns much more slowly than it charges.

• Run behind the cheese and climb on top.

With your sword in your mouth, you scurry to the top of the block, The cheese thrashes defiantly.

The cheese yowls as you plant the sword in what passes for its scalp. Its hops are slightly stunted now - you must have lodged it in a critical area. It's still trying to thrash you off, so you grasp the sword tightly.
Suddenly, you hear a feminine voice from the east: "THIS WAY! STEER IT!"

• Lean the hilt toward the eastern voice.

The cheese's cries of pain are warped by the sword's movement. Moving and pointing the hilt seems to pervert its internal workings to move toward that particular direction.
If the word "joystick" meant anything other than a twig for smacking a little hoop around, you'd understand this a little more.
The cheese hops mindlessly toward the source voice.
• It makes one final, desperate leap through some undergrowth...

Steam. Smoke. The pungent stench of fondue. Everything below you is ablaze with light.
The cheese squeals out a short, sharp cry. Its thrashing becomes slower and slower.
You find your line of sight slowly coming closer to the ground...
• Pull the sword out and jump off.


You leap off, sword in hand. You pant with exhaustion - but the smoke from the burning cheese is too thick to even breathe.
You step away for a minute to catch your breath.
• And just when you've taken your first deep breath in what feels like forever, you notice a dark, looming shape to your right...

There, clad in a purple woolen cloak and multiple tattered scarves, stands the source of the voice: a hare.
Some field mice say that hares are hard to tell apart from rabbits. But your grandmother once told you a trick to see the difference. Rabbits don't have a look in their eye like they saw the moment of their own death in the future - and look forward to it.
This hare was no exception. A hunched-over and emaciated mystic of a beast. Young in body but ancient in spirit.
She holds out her forepaws toward the smoke and molten cheese as if holding the strings of a puppet, concentrating intensely.
She takes one quick glance at you, then goes back to staring at the cheese.
• Um... my name's -

"Gregory Sniffings. I know."
A few seconds pass - then she grumbles, irritated by her own rudeness.
"Call me Lucerne."
Suddenly, she drops her hands back to the ground. She bows her head, panting.
"There... it's dead, thank God. Sorry I didn't come early enough to save that owl."
You look toward where the cheese once stood melting. All that's left is ashes, surrounding a red-hot perfect square in the ground - blazing and bubbling with some kind of molten metal.
Lucerne makes a half-hearted gesture with her right hand, and the square closes up.

• I've never seen a block of cheese do such a horrible thing before. ...in fact, I've never seen one grow teeth. What do you suppose happened?

She shakes her head.
"Long story. Similar cases have been popping up everywhere. Not just cheese - wagons tearing their drivers apart. Farmland swallowing up farmers. Stagecoaches chewing up their passengers and spitting them out.
It's called "The Beasting." Some say it's a plague, a curse, or the Devil's work. But I know the truth about the Beasting - it's a symptom. A symptom of a greater, ancient, world-spanning disaster that's been raging for aeons - and only someone from your bloodline, the Sniffings family, can solve it."
• You don't say! Then I know just what to do. My father's a magistrate - I'll have him draft up a law against inanimate objects to engaging in violence! That'll show 'em.

She places both paws on your shoulders. Her bulging eyes stare you down. You feel half an inch shorter.
"You don't understand, Gregory.
...
Actually, I think you do. Every Sniffings understands what's going on - it's just that some display it more than others.
As for you, you fuss and fret and overthink every day-to-day problem to death, when it seems like everyone around you is calm. That's not something wrong with you - that's something unbearably right. You know something is wrong with the world, on a spiritual, subconscious level.
You think owls eat mice without any basis. You soul remembers the world as it was, thousands of years ago - as it should be.
Look around you. Cheese grows on fucking flowers.
There is something deeply, fundamentally wrong with the world, and you can't see it - but what if you could? Imagine the peace it would bring you."
...
...
• ...What do you expect me to do?

She points upward, toward the North.
She speaks with twisted reverence.
"In the middle of a frozen lake to the distant north stands the Silver Tower, twelve miles high. There, at the summit, the Scarlet King sits at his golden pipe organ, playing the songs that twist ever tighter the unbreakable chains around our minds."
• Oh, I had a dream just like that once! Well, except, the Tower was made of gooseberry jam and there were as a jolly little accordionist, and... I'm not thinking of the same thing, am I?

Shivering, she grins, baring both rows of teeth.
"Gregory, I'm going to save the world from the tyranny of the Silver Tower. And you're coming with me."
• Oh, beans and toast...


End of Act 1



Note From Mr. Horace-In-The-Hole

Oi, Gregory! That was Act One of Five. This ain't gonna be the smoothest mail run, if you catch my drift. You'd best pack a lunch, mate.

Listen, my cousin Cletus heard you were headed out, and he'd damn near pitched a fit unless I swore I'd relay this message to you: the best way to "save your progress" is to "bookmark these offset pages" or "visit the guide in the comment section," which is apparently something you'd be familiar with if "you've read 8005."

(If that don't mean a thing to you, we're in the same boat. Bear in mind that Cletus is the sort of bloke what nibbles on chalk and thinks he was born on Neptune. Great dancer, though!)

Anyways, happy huntin', ya rapscallion!

My only core memory from before my first birthday was when I was being held face-first against a stone altar. Apparently, some gash that a priest made in my cheek was being used as a brush to paint little hieroglyphs for the Big Red Boss.

Other than that, the first year of my life was a series of blurred calls and responses. Wake up, feel a new kind of pain, hear a new kind of unpronounceable word being chanted - two feeding tubes a day, one bath a day, and then, back to my spot in the old file cabinet.

In retrospect, it's ridiculous that I can talk about my ritualistic abuse with such nonchalance. But when you're new in the world and that's your only reality, and no one shows you anything nice to compare it with — in a way, the predictability was comforting. And thankfully, I can't remember anything too specific.

I never met my biological parents. Every now and then, one of the feminine screams I heard stuck out as strangely familiar, but that's it.

My first trip outside was heralded by a flashbang and a mobile task force moving in — and like that, my days were dominated by fluorescent lighting, lab coats, and smiling faces at Foundation Site-59.

I wouldn't learn the finer details about my first years until much later — and even then, there were some aspects that the others were still afraid to tell me. Maybe it's for the best.

But I was a born in a Children of the Scarlet King compound just outside of Macon, GA, raised to be a human sacrifice once I turned two. Amnestics hadn't been approved for babies — but since I was the only kid who survived the raid, the then-site director, Dr. Isaiah Henderson, took me in as his onsite ward.

Years passed. Dad died in some weird bananas-and-peanuts incident when I was six. I gradually started going to "outside-people" school. Little Maddie Henderson, Site-59's de facto mascot, became Dr. Madeleine Henderson, Site-59's Electronic Anomalies Department Head.

And honestly, I would have worked without pay if they let me. Everything nice that ever happened to me since my birth, I owed to the Foundation.

Which makes the Lucerne Fiasco all the more infuriating…
December 12th, 2047
"Senseless Ecological Destruction" - Domestic Terrorist Apprehended in Kisatchie National Forest

MINDEN - The Webster Parish Sheriff's Department detained 43-year-old Jefferson Davis Schumacher of Minden, LA on suspicion of felling over 172 trees, 53 of which were endangered species.

All trees were felled over a two-week period in Kisatchie National Forest, having been severed from their base through blunt force, leaving stumps filled with a caustic chemical residue that has yet to be completely analyzed. Schumacher's alleged MO is still under investigation.

Schumacher, a rodent exterminator, is a prominent figure in multiple conspiracy theory forums on the Internet. On his blog, he has repeatedly accused the National Park Service of harboring "secret govment mcdonaldses where they make fetusburgurs" (sp).

Park officials traced the destruction of trees to Schumacher through emails he had sent the Rangers' Office a month prior to the attacks, threatening to dismantle their "antenna-trees" that they were supposedly using to locate fetuses for consumption. Suspicion was further corroborated by Schumacher's access to hazardous pesticides, as well as the fact that identical chemical residue was discovered in his car.

When questioned, Schumacher vehemently denied all allegations, claiming that the trees were destroyed by tree-hating monster with an obscene name…

- NOLA.com
December 15th, 2047

Interview Log: PoI-5815
Interviewer: Col. Faye O'Hanlon, Local Task Force Fehu-17 "Gator Tots"
Interviewed: PoI-5815, Jefferson D. Schumacher
Location: Webster Parish Sheriff's Office, Interrogation Room 2

<Begin Log>

[O'Hanlon enters the room. PoI-5818, handcuffed, fidgets in his seat.]

O'Hanlon: Good afternoon, Mr. Schumacher, I hope you're feeling —

PoI-5815: Lemme guess, y'all here to chop my balls off and sell 'em to Ronald McDonald so they can make meat-clones outta my stem cells and abort 'em for that there new Fetus McRib?

O'Hanlon: …

PoI-5815: Well, too got-dang ol' gol-dern motherfuckin' BAD! I foresaw y'all doin' that, so I done shot my balls off the other day! T'aint nothin' there no more, feel 'em! Go on!

O'Hanlon: Sir, I'm here to help with your release. Do not make me regret it.

PoI-5815: …

O'Hanlon: Yeah.

PoI-5815: …'kay, but that shit about shootin' my balls off stays in this here room, got it?

O'Hanlon: Fine. I wasn't here to talk about that anyway, I'm here to —

PoI-5815: Good! Good, cuz I ain't talkin' 'bout that! In fact, I didn't even say I shot 'em off for real! Y'all had me under duress! Forced confession!

O'Hanlon: SIR.

PoI-5815: …

O'Hanlon: We're here to talk to you about… (Heavy sigh.) …"Treefucker."

PoI-5815: HA!! Treefugger's real! See?! Treefugger's real, y'all finely admit it!

O'Hanlon: I have confirmed nothing.

PoI-5815: Nuh-uh, no take-backsies!

[O'Hanlon checks her files.]

O'Hanlon: Anyway, Mr. Schumacher, chemical analysis of the toxic residue left on the trees was forwarded to the Foundation following discovery of its anomalous properties. Among other compounds, we discovered the presence of human DNA, and… well, let's just say we now have evidence that these trees were felled sexually.

PoI-5815: Yer welcome!

O'Hanlon: However, we have not ruled out the possibility that you might be this "Treefucker."

PoI-5815: WHAT?! I ain't no gotdamn Treefugger! Treefugger's the Treefugger!

O'Hanlon: The emails you sent threatening to destroy trees in Kisatchie National Forest would indicate otherwise.

PoI-5815: But I was gon' use my chainsaw, not my dick!

O'Hanlon: But what if you discovered a more efficient, more humiliating way to destroy these trees…?

PoI-5815: Why the hell'd I wanna fugg a tree, anyhow?! Big ol' fuggers fulla splinters n' shit!

O'Hanlon: And if you want to prove your innocence, we need to know more about the real Treefucker so that it can be apprehended.

PoI-5815: Oh?

O'Hanlon: For one thing, we understand that you have encountered this Treefucker at least once.

PoI-5815: …yeah. Yeah, I did. Saw him a coupla times in my lawn. Sumbitch only comes out at night. See, I had this big ol' Chrimmus tree, a real one from Canada or summat, and I set it up in my driveway all fulla priddy-ass deckerations n' shit. I was sittin' there in my livin’ room watchin' Steven Seagal movies when alla sudden I see this big ol' skinny naked dude outside — nine, ten feet high, I wanna say, long black hair all matted, looked like one a them music festival wooks we get here round about summertime — he starts howlin' like a gotdamn monkey with his balls in a mousetrap, and he's peelin' off the pine needles off my tree, throws it down, cuts a slit into the trunka my tree, and BOING! In goes his gotdang wiener.

O'Hanlon: I need a drink.

PoI-5815: Whazzat?

O'Hanlon: Continue.

PoI-5815: Well, anyway, havin' a Chrimmus tree gettin' fugged wasn't very Chrimmussy, so I grab my shotgun, git out there all "HEY YA GOTDANG TREEFUGGER QUIT FUGGIN' THAT THERE TREE!"

O'Hanlon: And how did he react to this?

[PoI-5815 bows his head.]

PoI-5815: …he done fugged my car instead.

<End Log>
December 16th, 2047

Security Camera Footage - Initial containment of Entity-TFK1
Presiding Team: LTF Fehu-17 "Gator Tots"
Location: Entity-TFK Trap Station 1, Kisatchie National Forest

<Truncated for Brevity>

[Night vision filter active.]

<23:04:29> A Frasier fir, purchased from a nearby Christmas Tree lot, sits in a tree stand in a forest clearing. Twelve stumps from Entity-TFK's rampages surround it.

<23:04:58> 29 strong footsteps can be heard approaching over the course of three seconds.

<23:05:01> It jumps in front of the tree. The entity's appearance is analogous to PoI-5815's account.

<23:05:02> It remains completely still, staring at the tree for three uninterrupted minutes. He does not blink.

<23:08:49> Entity-TFK: You know, I probably shouldn't fuck this tree.

<23:09:40> It picks up the tree.

<23:10:20> It peels the needles from several lower branches.

<23:10:30> It begins biting into the trunk toward the bottom of the tree, creating an "access point."

<23:10:31> A gunshot is heard. A tranquilizer dart appears in Entity-TFK's upper neck.

<23:10:33> Entity-TFK: Hey, don't be a dick. You can shoot me when I'm done. Geez…

<23:10:43> Entity-TFK engages in coitus with the tree.

<23:11:24> The tranquilizer dart takes effect mid-coitus.

<23:11:30> Entity-TFK loses consciousness.

<23:11:35> Corporal Townsend: …Okay, move in for capture.

<23:11:50> Corporals Burnham and Townsend slowly approach Entity-TFK.

<23:12:10> They attempt to extract Entity-TFK's genitals from the tree.

<Truncated for Brevity>

<23:40:32> They are unsuccessful.

<End Log>
December 17th, 2047

From: O5-10 [o510@foundation.scp]
To: Col. Faye O'Hanlon, LTF Fehu-17 [fohanlon@foundation.scp]
Subject: URGENT RE: Entity-TFK

Colonel. I have been in contact with Dr. Randall Montauk, who took over his father's position in managing anomalies pertaining to the Scarlet King. Certain parallels have been drawn between him and Entity-TFK — namely, Daevite myths about "the Seneschal", how the tree is a symbol of feminine power that was undone by the King's most faithful steward.

These parallels, if they mean anything, are too dangerous to be ignored. They would mean that your task force has nowhere near the resources to deal with Entity-TFK's true potential.

I'll call in a few minutes with more details and your next steps. In the meantime, get TFK away from densely populated areas, keep him unconscious - and above all else, by any means necessary, keep him in an "uncrowned" state. This would be the only factor that would ritually bind the rest of him into dormancy.

In other words, do not let him near a hat, headgear of any kind, and especially not a crown.

- O5-10
INCIDENT LOG TFK-PRIME

Date: 12/17/2047
Time: 12:49 PM CST

<Begin Log>

[Corporals Townsend and Burnham sit in the cabin of an armored truck for Secure Collateral Porters, a foundation front company. Townsend is driving. They're carrying Entity-TFK North on State Route 7, going through Sarepta, LA. Footage comes from Burnham's bodycam.]

[There are notable thumping noises in the backseat.]

Townsend: Think our mutual friend finally woke up…

Burnham: I wouldn't worry. He's still got his, uh, plus-one to keep him busy.

Townsend: Ugh. If we ever have to contain something that drops a truth bomb like "oh, turns out trees are sentient and they feel pain," I swear to God…

[They're held at up a long red light near a strip mall.]

[Burnham's walkie-talkie activates. It's Col. O'Hanlon.]

O'Hanlon: Burnham! Come in, right now!

Burnham: Loud and clear, ma'am.

O'Hanlon: I just got an emergency update from O5 Command regarding —

[Entity-TFK bangs a fist on the right wall of the truck's interior. It startles Townsend.]

Townsend: Jesus.

Burnham: One sec, ma'am, didn't quite catch —

Entity-TFK: Can we get Burger King?

[The banging continues.]

O'Hanlon: [Inaudible through banging.]

Townsend: Knock it off back there!

Entity-TFK: I wanna go to Burger King.

[They notice a Burger King on the right side of the road.]

Burnham: How can it even see that?

O'Hanlon: Burnham, this is an emergency! Get — [Inaudible through banging]

Entity-TFK: Come on, there's no line. It'll take two minutes, tops.

Townsend: We are NOT getting Burger King, now shut up!

O'Hanlon: You're at a Burger King?! GET OUT OF BURGER KING RIGHT NOW!

Burnham: Negative, we are NOT at Burger King!

O'Hanlon: GET AWAY FROM THE BURGER KING!

Burnham: Townsend!

Townsend: Fine, fine, light's green anyway! We're going —

[Entity-TFK's hand breaks through the barrier separating the cabin.]

Townsend: What the —

Entity-TFK: Two minutes. Really.

[Entity-TFK breaks Townsend's neck while his foot is still on the gas pedal. It takes hold of the steering wheel.]

Burnham: TOWNSEND!

[CRASH!]

[Video feed cuts out for approx. 37 seconds, then resumes on the floor of the Burger King. The armored truck has bashed through the doors.]

[A few families eating lunch have been cornered at one end of the store. Burnham approaches some of the families.]

Burnham: Just — just stay calm! Ignore the giant naked tree thing, he won't hurt you if you just — look, just give me a minute.

[He turns to Entity-TFK with his rifle drawn.]

[Entity-TFK, with the stuck tree trailing behind its legs, tries to put together one of Burger King's paper crowns. It's too clumsy. It tears the crown in half by mistake.]

Entity-TFK: Would it kill them to make a version for bigger hands?

[A cashier slowly approaches Entity-TFK.]

Cashier: Hey, uh, sir?

Entity-TFK: Oh! Hey… Um… listen, I'm gonna need you to use your tiny baby squirrel appendages to put one of these crowny-things together for me, so, uh… do it or I'll rip off your wings.

Cashier: I don't have any… uh… do you mean my arms?

Entity-TFK: Arms? …You know, that does make a little more sense. Now, do the thing.

[The cashier grabs one of the unassembled crowns. She puts the tabs together. The crown is complete.]

Cashier: Here you go.

[She hands the crown to Entity-TFK.]

Entity-TFK: Heh. Sweet.

[Entity-TFK crowns itself.]

[Brilliant red light shoots from its eyes. It hangs in the air as if suspended, spreading its arms like wings.]

[Burnham's walkie-talkie reactivates.]

O'Hanlon: Burnham?

Burnham: Ma'am.

O'Hanlon: Just — answer me one thing. Is Entity-TFK wearing a crown right now?

Burnham: …I mean, it's just one of those dinky paper ones you get at —

O'Hanlon: Oh my God.

Burnham: Ma'am?

O'Hanlon: Burnham… I'm sorry.

[The ground shakes.]
Entity-TFK: youkissyourmotherwiththatmouth.png

[Explosion.]

[The feed cuts out.]

<End Log>
Lucerne is waiting...

