
The Mad Beach Party

It was technically a beach holiday. The beach in question just happened to be in the middle of a vast swathe of ocean, a swathe so remote that nobody even knew it hadn't been named yet. It also happened to be little more than a thin circle of sand barely clinging to the surface, almost too pitiful to be called an atoll at all. So narrow was the available dry land that one could barely afford to take two steps forward or back without the waves lapping at their heels.

However, the threadbare beach was not what drew this particular set of unlikely holidaymakers, but rather the massive lagoon situated at its center, so strikingly wide and dark that one might imagine it stretched all the way down to the other end of the world.

Assuming that Wonderland even had any other ends to extend to.

Such was Shark Lagoon.

"It's not a very creative name," said Time.

A behatted man, unusually small but with an unusually large head, held up a finger to Time in a tutting sort of way.

"You would think so," said the Mad Hatter, "unless the Lagoon hadn't any sharks."

Time adjusted his bathing trousers again for the third Time in as many minutes. He hadn't looked comfortable for one instant since putting them on, yet he marched on as ever, not once standing still.

"And are there sharks in Shark Lagoon?" he asked.

"Yes!" called out the July Hare—as he was called at that part of the year—giving his umbrella a neat twirl.

"It's not a very creative name," Time repeated.

"Your nose points to the left," the Hatter replied, shaking a small crab from his big toe.

It was a beautiful summer day, at a Time very long ago. It was back in one of the breezy years, one of the Before Years, one of the years when hats were in high demand, quality hats were in short supply, and uniquely extravagant hats most coveted of all. None could be said to be more unique than the creations of the Mad Hatter, who had been so named for his unique artistic vision, for being mad, and for making hats.

At least, he had at some point.

One might assume, then, the Mad Hatter must have possessed some other name at some other point, perhaps one bestowed to him at birth by a set of progenitive figures of some description. However, with names being such fickle things—particularly in Wonderland—the only name the Mad Hatter could answer to with confidence at this juncture was the Mad Hatter. At any rate, the name suited him well, and suited his fancy well enough.

"I chose the name Shark Lagoon because that's the only name for it," the Mad Hatter said. "There's more shark in the lagoon than there is water."

"That massive thing?" Time asked. "There would have to be millions of sharks down there for that to be true. Billions, perhaps."

"Eight!" called out the July Hare, and his umbrella twirled again, possibly of its own accord.

The Hatter nudged the tiny crab in the Hare's direction, then began wading deeper toward the great dark hole. Putting on an air of grandeur to his voice, he explained, "The youngest is the Baby Shark, which is so small you can barely see it. Then there's a Mama Shark about the size of my left thumb. The Papa Shark is the size of my right foot. The Grandma Shark is the size of the magnificent hat that I'm wearing. The Grandpa Shark is the size of an irritable bull elephant. The Forefather Shark is roughly the size and shape of the royal palace. And deeper still lies the Ancestor Shark, which takes up the rest of the space all the way down to the ocean floor."

Time fidgeted with his bathing trousers yet again, like clockwork, and said "That's only seven."

Hatter waded deeper still, lifting his hat aloft in hand to keep it safe and dry.

"I was getting there," he snapped, tipping his head to keep his lips above water. "At the top of the family tree, and at the bottom of the ocean, beneath the ocean floor itself, resting in the core on which our very world is built, lies the First of the Ancient Ones from Time Immemorial, He Who Kept Order in the Darkness, Who Slept as the Chaos of Life Infected Existence, Who One Day Will Wake Once More to Devour All Things Living And Nonliving Until the Whole of Reality is Finally Returned to Darkness and Nothingness and Perfection Shark, doot doo doo, doot doo doo."

"Now there's a creative name," said Time. "And a creative story."

"IT'S ENTIRELY TRUE," DEATH interjected, using two bony fingers to curl the corner of his black beach blanket away from the coming tide.

Time scoffed.

"Aye, it's true," agreed Taxes from his perch atop a banknote raft.

"You can't remember it because you weren't there," said Time.

"And Time can't remember it because it was from Time immemorial," the Hatter pointed out. "Remember?"

"Ah. I suppose that's right."

This answer seemed to prove to Time's satisfaction, and he marched with a bit more gusto going forward, a small trench already formed along the sandbar from his pacing.

In those breezy years, those Before Years, the Mad Hatter was beset upon daily by all manner of clientele—and 'all manner' is no exaggeration. However, he was a capricious sort of Hatter. Specifically, he was the sort of capricious sort that did not take well to being demanded of.

The truth was that the Mad Hatter had not actually been in the habit of producing hats for a good long while. This led to a robust waiting list for his creations, which lent his brand an air of mystery and exclusivity, which drove up demand even higher, which made the waiting list even longer, which led to this: a series of extravagant outings provided by the most highfalutin cadre of hat enthusiasts in the cosmos.

Which, in turn, led the Mad Hatter to come under the impression that his companionship was, in itself, a most exceptional commodity.

In many ways, he was right.

"Would you like me to hold that for you?" Taxes offered to the Hatter, gesturing to the enormous green top hat he could barely hold above water.

"DON'T DO THAT!" said DEATH. "YOU'LL NEVER GET IT BACK. GIVE IT HERE INSTEAD."

"Don't listen to him either," said Time. "You may see returns from Taxes one day, but DEATH gives nothing back."

The Hatter, who had already started his way back to land, popped his head up from the water, dislodged an enormous starfish from his mouth with a weary splat, and inhaled profusely.

"I think I've tired of seabathing," he said to his companions. "Thank you all the same."

And with that, he returned his fine dry hat to its proper perch upon his sopping wet head.

"A shame. It's a lovely hat."

"SUCH A LOVELY HAT."

"And still for sale!" called out the Hare, pointing to the oversized price tag that covered nearly the entire left side.

"Not to them!" the Hatter exclaimed. "The tag says 'In this style!' This hat is reserved for a very specific patron!"

"A shame."

"SUCH A SHAME."

The Hatter planted himself on the sandbar in a quick, harrumphing sort of way, and pulled the brim of his magnificent hat over his ears and eyes, as though hoping to retreat within it entirely. Had it not been for his equally magnificent nose, one might imagine he could have succeeded.

"I can't help notice," said the Hatter, still quite blinded by his hat but eager to shift attention, "that Time has yet to enjoy the lovely warm water."

"Ahem," was all Time said.

The thought struck the Hatter that it would have been less conspicuous had Time not said anything at all.

"HE MAY BE ON HOLIDAY, BUT HE'S ALWAYS ON THE CLOCK," explained Death. "ME, I NEVER TAKE A HOLIDAY."

At this, Time appeared so startled he almost stopped marching for a moment, but caught himself and adjusted his trousers for good measure.

"Egads!" he cried. "Oughtn't you be working then?"

DEATH stretched out lazily on his beach blanket.

"I AM EVERYWHERE. YOU SEE ME HERE, NOT WORKING. I AM ALSO IN THE COUNTRYSIDE, DUTIFULLY CLAIMING THE LIVES OF A YOUNG COUPLE WHOSE VEGETABLE HOME HAS COLLAPSED ON THEM IN A HAILSTORM OF HOUSEPETS. AND I'M AT HOME, TOO, WORKING ON MY MEMOIRS. I'VE ONLY WRITTEN UP TO THE BIRTH OF THE UNIVERSE, BUT I'M QUITE PLEASED WITH THE PROSE SO FAR."

"I don't get a holiday either."

"That's because you don't work," Time rebutted. There was no resistance.

The Hatter, who had emerged from his hat, and retrieved several biscuits from it as well, was quite captivated by this turn in conversation he'd instigated.

"Surely one can have Time in the ocean," he pointed out.

"Yes, I think I've heard of such a thing," agreed the Hare, who had begun a beautiful backstroke using his ears.

"Then there is no reason why Time should miss the opportunity for a lovely swim," the Hatter concluded.

At this, Time hung his head soberly, yet ever marched on with a subdued trod.

As the Hare drifted by the sorry scene, he cupped his ear secretively against the Hatter's and whispered, "Time is passing because he can't swim. Time marches, and Time flies, but you never hear of Time swimming because he never learned."

"He never learned!" the Hatter exclaimed in shock.

"He never learned?" exclaimed Taxes.

"HE NEVER LEARNED!" exclaimed DEATH.

"He never learned!" exclaimed a tiny Dormouse, bolting up from its slumber momentarily before slipping right back into a sandy little nap.

For a moment, Time seemed to stand still.

"I never learned!" he exclaimed, hiding his tears in shame.

At this, the Hatter leapt to his feet, and began to supply Time with a healthy supplement of "It's all right," and "There, there, my good man," until Time had calmed himself.

"I'll move forward," Time said, his resolve clearly as shaky as his voice. "But how embarrassing it is, to be able to march and fly, but not swim!"

And this gave the Mad Hatter an idea. A very kind idea. A very bad idea.

"I know," he said, his arm locked around Time as he resumed his pace. "I'll teach you."

The July Hare, drifting by once more after circling round, asked of the Hatter, "Can you swim?"

The Hatter shrugged.

"No," he said. "I've tried. I sink. However, I've never tried teaching someone how to swim, so there's a chance I'll succeed at that instead."

There was little arguing with an argument such as that. Thus, the rest of the afternoon was set to a singular purpose: the Hatter would teach Time to swim.

"First we'll try the backstroke," said the Hatter, as it was the only stroke he could name. "Lie down on the water and spin your arms in circles."

Time, being an agreeable sort, stepped into the shallows and threw himself face down.

"No! No! No!" the Hatter yelped. "The other way, man! Lie on your back!"

Time rolled onto his back. The tip of nose barely peeked above the surface of the water.

"The water is too shallow there," the Hatter continued. "Go deeper."

Time replied in a gurglesome sort of way from beneath the shadows, "I'd rather not. I can't swim."

"Very well. You may spin your arms now. Pretend they're hands on a pocket watch that's too fast."

So Time did. He had to expend great effort in forcing his arms through the sand to accomplish it, but he did. He spun his arms, and he kept spinning them, pushing through the sand, propelling him forward, fast and faster, and out, out, out into the lagoon.

"I say!" exclaimed the July Hare. "Time is swimming by!"

"I say!" exclaimed Taxes. "Time is swimming!"

"SWEET MERCIFUL FUCK!" screamed DEATH. "THE HANDS OF TIME ARE SPINNING BACKWARD!"

Indeed, the sun and clouds above were moving far too fast and in far too wrong a direction. DEATH, Taxes, and the July Hare took off after Time, pleading for him to stop! stop! STOP!, but by that point Time was a good distance away, and having far too much fun regardless.

As for the Hatter, he remained sat on the thin stretch of briny beach, a toothy grin at home across his face.

How curious, the Mad Hatter thought to himself, that it would be such great fun to teach others to enjoy themselves!



The Mad Tea Party, still

There had been a house at one point, some say. No one could remember what it looked like, as it hadn't stood in years, but it must have been quite a large house. The reason the house must have been large, and the reason the house was no longer there, was because various bits and pieces of it had been gradually torn off over the years and used to create extensions to a particular tea table, and the table had grown very, very, very large indeed.

The table began under a tree, somewhere in front of where the house used to be, and then stretched to and fro across the lawn, then up and down the tree, over the old torn-out basement, upward diagonally for a ways, then straight and back down, and then through the tree again, and so on and so forth until it eventually wrapped back to the beginning. It was a rather roughshod construction, as one would imagine, with a great many splinters and jagged edges that didn't quite fit together. Yet a great deal of care had been taken to ensure its length was lovingly draped in a complementary tablecloth stitched together from an equally impressive assortment of fabrics.

There used to be a Hare at the table, some say. For one month a year, the Maddest month of the year, and for a good many years, the Hare and the Hatter would have a tea party. Granted, the Mad Hatter was always having a tea party, as for him it was perpetually tea time—whether he wished it or not. But for one month, and for the whole month, the March Hare would join him.

This year, for the first year, the March Hare was absent. While Time may have stood still for the Hatter, it still marched on for the rest. The Hares of Wonderland are a special kind of Hare, to be sure, but sadly not as special or as long-lived as one might assume, nor as much as the Hatter would have preferred.

(There also used to be a Dormouse at the table, some say, and it must be said that the Dormouse had long left the tea table to pursue its dream of becoming an actuary very shortly after the whole strange affair started off, and would not return for a good while longer.)

Thus the Hatter sat alone at the vast table, trying to pour a cup of tea. He had done so for many years without incident, but this particular pour had gone totally wrong. The cup he'd selected was cracked such that it had no bottom, which wouldn't have been such a terrible problem if the pot he poured from hadn't stubbornly refused to run empty. The result was an endless stream of Darjeeling that trickled through the fractured ceramic, down the table, and into the grass, where it had developed into a modest little stream that attracted a happy assortment of small, grateful creatures.

"I must object to your tone," said the Hatter to no one in particular.

No one in particular responded, and the Hatter continued, "Cottage cheese is not made of cottages. It is made in cottages, by cottages, for—"

"WHO ARE YOU TALKING TO?"

A great skeleton loomed over him. Its flowing black robe cast a shadow over the entire length of the tea table, nearly turning the day to night.

The Hatter, so startled by the interruption, dropped his broken teacup, breaking it completely. This was a fortunate thing for him, as breaking a thing which was broken had the handy effect of mending it, and the cup began to fill with Darjeeling.

"No one in particular," answered the Hatter, looking rather preoccupied with smothering his tea in sugar. "I'm sure you've met. Your skull has grown quite musty and yellow since we last spoke."

DEATH descended on the tea party.

"NOBODY I KNOW, BUT I'VE YET TO MEET NO ONE IN PARTICULAR."

He drew a chair across from his Mad companion and poured himself some Ceylon in a little flowered cup. To his surprise, it was still warm. Cup and tea both.

"AND I'LL HAVE YOU KNOW I'VE RECEIVED MANY COMPLIMENTS ON MY PATINA," DEATH added. "IT'S THE FASHION NOWADAYS. I'LL FORGIVE YOU BEING BEHIND THE TIMES, GIVEN YOUR SITUATION."

The Hatter hung his head, stooping so low his nose brushed the surface of his tea. He twirled his spoon in idle circles around the cup. It clinked and scraped in protest.

"It's rude to draw attention to a person's flaws, you know."

DEATH took a happy sip of tea and ignored him. The tea slipped past the lips DEATH didn't have and down the throat he didn't have, warming the stomach he didn't have nicely.

"I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT BE LONELY."

"Not at all. Perhaps. Very much, a little bit. No room, though. No room at all for company."

"I CAN SEE THAT," said DEATH, craning his head to admire the absurd length of table. "YOU GETTING ON WELL WITHOUT THE BUNNY?"

"Who?" asked the Hatter. His face scrunched with an expression of genuine confusion, then relaxed. "Oh. You mean the Anglo-Saxon one. Yes, it has been March for a good while, hasn't it? He's late. We had a date set. A very important one, mind. Though it seems he did not care enough to keep it, so I'm happy for the peace and quiet."

"HE DIED, YOU NINNY."

The Hatter carried on stirring.

"That's no excuse. It's poor form to expire unannounced and leave a man so terribly inconvenienced."

DEATH nodded.

"HE ASKED ME TO PASS ON HIS SINCEREST APOLOGIES FOR THAT."

"You may tell him I will accept his apologies when he returns the trousers I lent him."

"CERTAINLY."

And they sat there, the Hatter absently noodling his spoon around the teacup while DEATH took in the strange, sorry ambiance around them.

"IT'S A SAD SORT OF TEA PARTY THESE DAYS."

The Hatter tugged at his bow tie, nearly to the point of rending it, his face contorting as he choked back tears.

"I'm frightfully bored of it, tea and party alike!" he said. "I'll not stomach another cup of the stuff in this lifetime, and a party is hardly a party by oneself. No offense to present company."

"NONE TAKEN."

Nevertheless, the Hatter was getting quite worked up, and in short order grew to such a lather that he was teething on the saucers.

"I COULD TALK TO HIM," DEATH said with a gentle timbre, the sort one might hear in the tone of a hostage negotiator or car salesman. "TIME, I MEAN."

The Hatter spat the saucer to the grass below.

"Time? I thought I killed him."

"YOU DID. YOU MURDERED HIM QUITE DEAD. I WOULD KNOW. BUT TIME HEALS ALL WOUNDS, SO HE WAS RIGHT AS rain SHORTLY THEREAFTER. HE WAS MORE PUT OFF BY THE WAY YOU MADE A ROYAL SCENE OF IT. FRANKLY, I SUSPECT HE MEANT TO LET YOU OFF THE HOOK AGES AGO, YET ALAS, IT MUST HAVE SLIPPED HIS MIND. JUST ANOTHER MAN THAT TIME FORGOT. BUT PERHAPS I MAY PERSUADE HIM TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT YOUR LITTLE PREDICAMENT."

A great many emotions came over the Hatter's face at once, creating an odd tapestry of expression. Elation was there, and hope, but also seething rage and disappointment, with smatterings of perplexity, propinquity, and a touch of Tuesday.

Eventually, when the matter of who, exactly, the Hatter was dealing with began to sink in, a look of somber caution won out.

"And what, pray tell, would you ask in return?"

The air of Wonderland drew thin and still as DEATH smiled with those lips he didn't have. He leaned forward and placed his hands on the oversized tea table, each hand making a ra-ra-ra-ra-rap! as his skeleton fingers thrummed down in line. He then slowly rose to his feet, keeping his hands planted where they were, and brought up a shrouded knee on the table.

And he crawled closer.

ra-ra-ra-ra-rap!!

And closer.

ra-ra-ra-ra-rap!!!

Until his bare skull was inches from the Hatter's face.

And DEATH put forth

a grasping, bloodless hand

outstretched toward his heart—


and flicked the Hatter on the underside of his overlarge nose.

"I WANT ONE OF YOUR MARVELOUS HATS, YOU FUNNY LITTLE MAN."

The Mad Hatter composed himself—which was no quick feat, as he had to wring the sweat from his pocket square several times—then nodded to DEATH with an agreeable smile.

"Maybe," said the Hatter.

"MAYBE?" DEATH repeated, incredulous.

The Hatter offered him a polite shrug.

"It's been a frightfully long while since I habbered, and longer still since I've done the least bit of dashering. I'm quite keen to get back at it, but I'm dreadfully out of practice. Perhaps if I had my associates here to help me remember my techniques—"

At that instant, DEATH drew himself to his full height atop the tea table, towering over the little man before he could utter another syllable.

"I GIVE NOTHING BACK."

The Hatter folded his arms and looked aside.

"I can't make a hat without my associates."

A stubborn silence set in. One minute. Then two, and then perhaps more. Finally, DEATH heaved a weary sigh and plunked himself down at the edge of the table, kicking his legs with something between agitation and excitement.

"OKAY. YOU CAN HAVE THE BUNNY. THE SAXON. THE HARE. WHATEVER IT IS. THE DORMOUSE ISN'T ACTUALLY DEAD YET, BUT I CAN PROBABLY WRANGLE HIM FOR YOU. WILL YOU MAKE ME A HAT?"

The Mad Hatter, still looking aside, peeked over at DEATH from the corner of his eye, closed it thoughtfully for a moment, and nodded with an agreeable smile.

"Maybe," said the Hatter.

"MAYBE, HE SAYS!"

"On our last excursion together, I recall you mentioned that you possess the gift to be everywhere at once. I would very much like the same, if it's not too much trouble."

"IT WOULD BE A GREAT DEAL OF TROUBLE," DEATH replied. Something like a shadowy glow emanated from his empty eye sockets, a strange flutter of tangible darkness, wisps of anti-light. "IN POINT OF FACT, THE UNFATHOMABLE WEIGHT OF OMNIPRESENCE WOULD RENDER YOUR FRAGILE MORTAL FORM NAUGHT BUT A MIST OF GRUESOME PERFUME."

"Very well," the Hatter said in a low, sighing sort of way. "I shall settle for the gift to go to any of the lands and realms you traverse, without the need to be there all at once."

DEATH set his head upon his hand and considered this.

"YEAH, THAT COULD WORK."

"And my associates and I shall live as long as we like."

"YOU'RE KILLING ME HERE," DEATH moaned.

Nevertheless, after some consideration, DEATH extended his bony hand, and the Hatter shook it with vigor.

How curious, the Mad Hatter thought to himself, that it would be such great fun to strike a good business deal!



(Intermezzo)

After that, a good number of important events transpired in rapid succession. The Hatter and his Hare friend had scarcely any opportunity to celebrate their reunion before they realized that, what with being cursed by Time and being dead, respectively, they had not even a thruppenny left between them, much less the wherewithal to reopen a shuttered millinery mill.

Yet wherever they went, they found themselves accosted by impatient hat enthusiasts, whole mobs keen on receiving the headgear they (or their grandparents) had commissioned long ago. On and on they traveled, further out from the familiar Card Kingdoms and into the far-off reaches of the Checkered Lands.

It was there that the Hare and the Hatter were taken in by a generous piemaker. Day after day, the piemaker cottled stones to bake into his signature cottlestons, explaining every step of the process to his dutiful apprentices. And day after day, the Hare and the Hatter would make their own attempts, only for their stones to come out crumpled, curdled, and totally uncottled in the slightest. Eventually the piemaker had to dismiss his apprentices, but he'd grown fond enough that he recommended them to the zoo.

So the Hare and the Hatter were taken in by a kindly zookeeper. Day after day, the zookeeper tended to the lions and the tigers, the bidgers and the bodgers, the wallaboos and the super-in-tendants, explaining every step to his eager new assistants. Day after day, the Hare and the Hatter would find themselves at the business end of some irate beast's claws, or jaws, or mothers-in-laws. Eventually the zookeeper had to dismiss his assistants, but he recommended them to the White King.

So the Hare and the Hatter were taken in by the nervous White King. Day after day, the White King sent them in opposite directions, one always coming, the other always going, and barely a moment to meet in the middle for a friendly 'Hullo!'. And day after day, the Hare and the Hatter performed their duties with confidence and grace that surprised even themselves, so happy to be of service that they wriggled as they ran. Eventually the White King threw the Hatter in the dungeon for a crime that had not yet transpired, but that he was certain the Hatter would commit.

When the Hatter did not commit the crime, there was no overcoming the awkwardness. The Hare and the Hatter quit their positions with the White King, and shortly after quit the White King's kingdom altogether.

Which brought the Hare and Hatter back where they began.

"So you committed no crime?" asked Ten.

"None," the Hatter answered, offering a humble bow.

"That's good," Ten responded with a satisfied nod. "And you were punished regardless?"

"Indeed," the Hatter answered, bowing lower and humbler still.

"That's all the better!" Ten replied. "It's certainly an impressive résumé. You have experience working in a royal court, which is good. You're an enemy of the White Kingdom, which is grand. You've a spotless criminal record, which is gargantuan. And you've listed DEATH as a reference, which is downright gunkholing. It's a shame we have no positions."

The Hatter stopped bowing.

"Aha!" he said, pointing an accusatory finger at the playing card. "Liar! Fiend! Scoundrel! You are standing in a position at this very moment!"

"Rogue!" the January Hare added helpfully. "Daemon! Devil!"

The Ten of Hearts pushed his finger to his mouth in a frantic shush, his flat head furiously flipping left and right to scan the royal garden for signs of Her Majesty.

"Aha!" the Hatter repeated. "He puts himself in yet another position! Deceiver! Miscreant! Reprobate!"

"Rapscallion!" yelled the January Hare. "Skunk! Crudmonger!"

"Do be quiet!" cried the Ten of Hearts. "I only meant we have no jobs available. Now stop your accusations before you get me executed!"

The Hatter stuck up his nose in indignance. If a low-flying bird had passed at that moment, it would not have been untempted to set up nest inside.

"Very well," said the Hatter.

"Very well?" the Hare echoed quizzically.

"Very well!" concluded the Ten of Hearts, looking quite relived.

The Hatter nodded.

"I thank you muchly for your seeing us," he said. "After all, I'm sure you must be horrifically busy preparing for the Queen's unbirthday festivities."

The vibrant red dye printed across the Ten of Hearts' face suddenly began to grow pale.

"What do you mean, 'unbirthday'?" he asked.

At that, the Hatter locked the brim of his magnificent hat in a white-knuckle grip, as if fearful it might blow off in a gale of shock.

"He doesn't know what an unbirthday is!" exclaimed the Hatter.

"He doesn't know what an unbirthday is!" exclaimed the Hare.

"He doesn't know what an unbirthday is!" exclaimed the Dormouse, before quickly falling back to sleep upon its small cozy bed of delphiniums (blue) and geraniums (red).

"Please do be quiet!" said Ten, looking very much as though he might split down the middle.

The Hatter, with the sort of longsuffering irritation in his voice that one might use to explain something very obvious, went on: "Every royal in the White Kingdom celebrates unbirthdays. Why, even the common folk celebrate unbirthdays."

"Even eggs celebrate!" offered the Hare.

"Even eggs…" Ten whispered in fascination.

(The Dormouse, still mostly asleep, murmured "I think that's a slur," but no one paid it any attention.)

"And yet you won't even celebrate the unbirthday of your 'beloved' Queen!" said the Hatter, scattering a scoff, a snort, and a huff through the sentence for good measure. "How backward!"

"Barbaric," agreed the Hare.

The Ten of Hearts looked as if there was something he wished to say, but his body had grown quite flimsy, and his face royally flushed, and all that came from his paper-thin lips was a queasy groan.

"But—" and here the Hatter spoke the word very slowly, stretching it as far as it could go and then some— "I'd love to show you how to throw a proper unbirthday party."

For a moment, a hint of color returned to the Ten of Hearts' cheeks.

"But—" and again, the Hatter somehow managed to stretch the word even further than he had the first time— "I am a poor man in desperate need of income, and you have no positions."

That was all it took.

Sobbing, gasping, begging, the Ten of Hearts completely folded.



The Madsquerade

Streamers and ribbons of red and golden swept down from the chandelier to every corner of the royal banquet hall, creating a colorful canopy. The tiniest denizens of Wonderland scurried up and down the decorative drapery as if it were the rigging of the world's most dazzling party ship, and they gathered and perched in the filigrees and candle cups of the over-elaborate chandelier, snuggled together with drinks in hand.

Beneath, elaborately garbed nobles of every shape and species whirled about in a chaotic sort of waltz, one in which spinning was prioritized, partnerings were arbitrary, and tempo was temporary—the last of these qualities largely owing to the conductor of the royal band being a heavily inebriated lizard, who seemed to have gotten his baton fastened tight to his sticky fingers and in his distress had resorted to flinging his arm about in every conceivable manner to shake it loose.

All guests, both those above and below, wore masks. This was perhaps unnecessary—identity being such a fluid thing in Wonderland as it was—but daily unbirthday parties could quickly slip into mundanity without themes to keep them fresh, and thus: masks.

Beside the punch bowl, a Beetle King stood tall and proud. A crown of gold and a mask of onyx adorned his head, and his compound eyes were fixed on a red hot flame that licked the top of a nearby sconce.

At the foot of the bandstand stood three foxes. While they may have been lacking in stockings and sockses, they wore a trio of handsomely crafted faces evoking the commedia dell'arte, long porcelain snouts concealing their hungry smiles.

And at the back of the room, a FIGURE in a most incredible hat was crouched beneath the shadow of a fringed curtain. Waiting. Eating capers.

"You've outdone yourself," chirped a young bat. Her mask was the face of a bird, and the eyes beneath glistened with moonlight.

"A frabjous occasion, indeed," a raven gentleman agreed from beneath his pallid mask of Pallas. "Not a mimsy face in sight."

Her Majesty's Royal Party Planner returned the compliments with a polite 'Humh?' as he hurried through the throngs of guests that had packed about the lengthy buffet. On his head sat a hat, the same hat, not for sale, but to delivered, eventually. He wore a thin ceramic mask of Pedrolino, a dizzying pattern embossed along the rim, and bursting at both sides with a great deal more feathers than one would think ought to fit. A cloak was draped over his shoulders and it billowed down over the rest of his body, giving his physique the approximate silhouette of a bedazzled traffic cone.

He scuttled and scooted and scooched, past the crazed toad dressed as some form of hellspawn, past the uninvited tortoise gorging himself beyond the limits of his shell, past the ample ampalaya wearing an alarming number of stolen masks, past the black dog disguised as a white dog that was on the heels of a group of rowdy drunks, past, past, past—

"Make way!" announced the guards.

"Make way!"

"Make way for Her Majesty's Royal Party Planner!"

And way was made.

The royal table towered at the head of the room. It was an elaborate construction—and the Planner was no stranger to elaborate tables—with several layers stacked atop one another, each one slightly shorter than the one before, creating a pyramidal assemblage. The royal family sat in carefully spaced chairs, each crafted to be tall enough to get its occupant aligned with the height of their designated table. The youngest children naturally sat along the lowest row, overshadowed by the precariously balanced tables looming in front of them. The seats at the next tier were reserved for the older children, with the King and the oldest prince at the second-to-last layer, and the Queen of Hearts, of course, at the topmost table, on the tallest and shiniest seat.

"Gifts!" shouted the Queen, slamming a first on the tip-top table, causing the whole stack to shake and tremble from top to bottom.

The Planner, taking care to use a loud enough voice that Her Majesty would hear from her perch above, returned a dutiful "Yes, your Majesty!"

A space was cleared in front of the royal table, and the Planner took his spot. First, he bowed low and long—to save Time—and then, with a flourish, he unclasped the billowing cape around his body, and it fell to the ground, revealing that he held a modestly sized box, immodestly wrapped.

"The present for the royal family," he went on, raising up the box with both hands as if offering it to the heavens.

The Queen looked down on him in puzzlement for a moment, her elegant domino mask doing very little to conceal her very large face, which rapidly turned a fearsome crimson.

"Idiot!" she roared, her voice alone enough to send the tables quaking once more. "One gift for the whole royal family?"

Her Majesty's Royal Party Planner tucked the gift back down under his arm, and with his free hand covered his mouth with a fist to clear his throat.

"Truthfully," he began, his tone verging on bored, "it has been quite troublesome providing daily gifts for such a large family."

Yet again, the Queen regarded him in silence at first, this time with an expression of astonishment, and she surely would have broken out in a tantrum fit to take down the whole royal table if the Planner hadn't continued—

"Which is why I have designed gifts that make themselves."

The astonished expression on the Queen's face gave way to one of utter fascination, and the rest of the royal family were similarly rapt.

Without another word, Her Majesty's Royal Party Planner set the present on the checkered marble floor before him, and bowed again, though in a way that was more theatrical than deferential.

A hush fell over the banquet hall.

All eyes gathered on the extravagantly decorated present

as it

began

to move.

Critch! went the wrapping.

Crackle!

Rrrrrrrrip!

A small figure burst from the top of the box, sending several bows spinning across the floor beneath a shower of glitter. It was a bear, about a foot high, patched together from bits of terrycloth in vibrant hues. It teetered back and forth on its soft little stub-feet, and then came to rest, as though finding its footing for the first time in its fresh existence.

And it began to dance.

Everyone cheered.

"How marvelous!" exclaimed the King.

"How enchanting!" exclaimed the Queen.

"HOW DID HE MANAGE THAT?" a voice in the shadows mumbled through a mouthful of capers.

The youngest of the royal children, a playing card girl barely knee-high, slipped from her spot at the table, unable to contain herself, and rushed to the dancing toy. As she approached, the bear gave an excited little hop and flung itself around the girl's leg in a gentle hug. She shrieked in delight, and the crowd all gave an approving "awwww" in kind—except for one tiny expert on the matter of risk assessment, who was, to the girl's grave misfortune, fast asleep.

"And that's not all," the Planner announced, making no attempt to conceal his smugness. "I have instructed the little fellow on how to make even more furry friends like himself, and he'll need only whatever scraps you have laying about."

"I want him to make me one!" squealed another of the royal children.

"And me!" said yet another.

Swept up in the moment, the children ran to join all at once, linking hands and dancing together in a merry circle. As Her Majesty's Royal Party Planner watched the splendidly gay scene before him, a broad smile found its way across his face, broader than any smile he'd smiled in a while.

How curious, the Mad Hatter thought to himself, that it would be such great fun to bring joy to children!




    Shrimptember 24th

    Now that I've actually started this natty ickle fol-de-rol-de-diddery-diary, I noticed something newsworthy about the surface upon which I so frumiously jot: this brand-new writing desk. It's the first writing desk I've used in ages. (I'd use my clipboard, of course, would that not have so rudely died in childbirth.)

    And now that I get a good look at said writing desk, I can't help but notice… the riddle lied! This is NOTHING like a raven! No feathers, no beak, no talons, no gills, no antlers, no proboscis, no dead Lenore, no microscopic goblins — in what state of mind is this confounded desk anything raven-adjacent?!

    …fie on't, what am I saying? It's like I'm actually disappointed that something isn't logical. And if that's not a litmus test for what this dreary existence is doing to me, what is?

    For you see, Diary Dear, if the status quo maintains its current course, your faithful Mad Hatter will be a Bored Hatter in a fortnight.

    And so shall I elucidate.

    Behold, yesterday: the ugly little poster child for eleventeen days ago and every day since.

    Sunrise, I get up. Brush the morning paper, comb my teeth, read behind my ears. Make twelve dozen new bootleg Stetsons out of whatever's in my pantry. Diagnose myself with erethism 14 times during breakfast. Kick the servants. Remember I haven't any servants. Cry deeply about my solitude.

    Noon. Surprise, the March Hare's got another bloody unbirthday and simply must have me put on a few million kettles. We sing, we dance, we judge the guilty, we convert to Eastern Orthodoxy once or twice, we kill and resurrect the Dormouse, we exchange gifts valued between 4 and 18 pounds, we recite the most lovely little poems, alternating the pronunciation of the word "poem" as either "pome," "po-wem," or "snail" depending on the phases of the Moon…

    And by the time I sip my evening mercury and slip between my sheets, I nod off with one thought lingering in my restless mind… Is this it?

    Of course, everything's it, except the its which are they and the aren'ts which haven't a there-I-am or a wherefore-art-thou. But this routine, which once oviposited such Wonders down the backstreets of my ear canals, has changed so frightfully little. I find myself counting down to positive birthdays instead of their negated brethren just for a change of pace.

    But due to sentient life's despicable tendency to not have everyone born at four o'clock on Squeezeday the 58th of Pruneuary — someone always has an unbirthday, and I, Her Majesty's arbiter of unbirth, am always invited, and so are Marchie and Dormie by virtue of Hatter-adjacency.

    And if that weren't bad enough, Marchie has conveniently misplaced his birth certificate!

    Alack, even the East Wondia company's finest breakfast blend becomes little more than cloudy water if you have it with every meal.

    …oh, buck up, Mads. Even Quincy the Whining Pigeon can only play his Italian bagpipes for so long. No more plaintive squawking for the has-been-going-on — now, we must ever so triumphantly shriek toward the what-is-to-be-done!

    So hatcheth I a stratagem from yonder inkmarks…

    Hmm… dare I refuse Marchie for to take a day off?

    Oh, jam it all in the bat-flap, that's right! I sold my ability to say no to rodents so that I could buy that marble bust of Mozart mid-sneeze. Well, so long as I curse the barter system forever, that should sort itself out.

    I'd brainstorm further, but alas, my current hat isn't built for moisture, and I haven't my umbrella.

    So rather than risk unforgivable dampness, I'm left with the option at the very bottom of Terrence's1 left pocket.

    Yes, though the idea twinges my innards a bar gyroscopic, I must venture for the first time into that most dreadfully sensible world above for answers.

    Earth. Think of it — an entire world so viciously boring that they named it after dirt.

    Alas, if there were any other way, I'd pounce thereupon most a-tigerly. A change of environs would do me a world of good, however sane it may be.

    So packeth I my bags and saunter upward. With any luck, Marchie and Dormie have taken the little tent card I left on my tea-table to heart, the one that reads "I AM ACTUALLY HERE JUST INVISIBLE AND SILENT - M.H.". God knows that worked on me the last time Marchie had ptomaine poisoning.

    Dismember 72nd

    My grand tour of the capital-R capital-W Real World has left me positively Shibbed, a word I shan't define until Tuesday.

    Though most of my trip has been spent in Merry England (with a few layovers in Vietnam), I have found an Earth that has changed significantly from the brochures about it that the Cheshire Cat so generously shoved up my nostrils.

    For one thing, I don't seem to have landed on a fixed date in any upstairs calendar. The first world war is going on, but the seventh is starting in my hotel room.

    Suppose it's only fair. After all, I left Wonderland in a hurry. Scarcely had I stuffed my 500th porcelain ostrich in my trunk before I heard the Municipal Unbirthday Siren whining away o'er the cul-de-sac. When trying to dodge one's duties, you tend to forget important toiletries such as Causality and Linear Time. Twenty sovereigns says I left them under the laserdisc player.

    For another, I can't help but notice the reputation I've somehow built for myself. Apparently, there's an abject gaggle of those who would view I, Mads-et-cetera-Hatter, as… sexy?!

    ZOUNDS AND GADZOOKS! Neither logic or whatever-it-is-my-brains-do-when-my-mouth-is-open can justify this tomfoolery! I, Mad Hatter, virile? Fertile? Studworthy breeding stock?!

    Seeth they me not?! I, a gangly, ungroomed, childish, middle-aged, demented, untreated case of mercury poisoning? I, who drink from a kettle that a rodent sleeps in? I, who's most prominent depiction was voice-acted by Ed Wynn, of all people?! HAS ANYONE ACTUALLY HEARD HIS VOICE?! HE SPEAKS IN CONTRACEPTIVES! WHO ON GOD'S GREEN EARTH HEARS "Don't let'th be thilly!" AND STARTS OVULATING?!

    …do forgive me, Diary Dear, I'm only practicing sensible topics to throw wobblies about in order to blend in with the locals. The very minute I go public my usual "why won't the hieroglyphs floss with my invoices" or some such, that's when the powdered wigs toddle over with a sampling platter of Tony Blair's finest ASBOs.

    Because something tells me I'm going to be here for a long time.

    For if I were to come back after neglecting my duties… oh, come now, I got this head for five quid on clearance. So what if it's off-with? If your head hasn't been lobbed off, can you really call yourself a Wonderlander? I've even heard tell that Her Majesty's got a private boudoir guillotine because she can't sleep without being executed at least twice.

    Still, I hope they're not too upset with me.

    …

    (They probably are.)

    Untober 91st

    What ungodly gaiety! What a pelvic conflagration unbridles betwixt my extremities! …am I poetic yet? I am handling a considerable amount of cash in my wee ickle fingies and saying sad and Byronic sex things about it feels prudent.

    That's just the joyous quicksilver that cometh with opening a bank door, entering, and then closing said bank door. I speak, of course, of the very buildings where the jolly money-havers of Merry England store all their moneys for to have.

    And just smash a smattering of crumpets upon the face of me, for I have placed moneys into my possession! I — dare it even be said? — AM MONEYED!

    (This is the part where I'd place the cavalcade of joyful noises I do make at this moment, if such a thing could be done; alas, the last time I partook in the art of musical notation, I experienced severe abdominal hemorrhaging and blood came out my Jabberwocky for a few good St. Stephen's Days.)

    So, how in the EVER did I acquire such a wifeless dowry?

    …as a matter of fact, I haven't the vaguest idea, as ere I withdrew said said cash, I added such delightful tonics to my evening tea.

    From the forensic evidence I've gathered, I've become a rich man from one, several, all, or none of the following factors:

        Insider trading.
        Writing "I'm the richest little boy in the Rich Boys Bin and you WILL treat me as such!" on a quilt of cannibalised brassieres and presenting it to the nearest available bank clerk, followed by screaming at him until he took it seriously.
        Investing in beef substitutes.
        War profiteering.
        Loans I shan't repay.
        Product placement.
        Prolonged and intense thoughts in a dark corner about having a lot of money until Aleister Crowley himself showed up and said, "By Jove, my son, that's a proper spate of Thelemic manifestation you've been having and far be it from me to see such devilry go unrewarded, ergo, I invest as I speak, now go do what thou wilt before I box your ears!" whereupon he threw several septrillion bank notes at me.
        Embezzlement.
        Bamboozlement.
        Besquizzlement.
        Whining.

    At any rate, however I received this substantial fortune cookie minus the cookie, the fact remains: in its having, I've a sense of newfound fulfillment that hasn't been felt since my early days as an unbirthdologist. 'Tis a present I've received, but nothing of birthdays or their unbrethren about it!

    By God… it's as if good fortune needn't an anniversary of any sort attached to it.

    A senseless and stupid proposition… which can only mean I've cruelly underestimated this world's true potential for wonder.

    Fructidor 118th

    Foetid.

    Positively foetid.

    The aforementioned money pile has sat in the corner of my flat in Soho for some time now. And despite the praises I've sung of said fortune, it's yet to do anything but sit!

    Come now, we musn't get too excited. Perhaps I've yet to fully unlock the secrets of non-wondrous currency. This calls for a consultation with an expert.

    Next to thee, Diary Dear, I've taken the liberty of placing several economics textbooks. I will now take a little sabbatical from diarism to consume the knowledge of these books by slamming my forehead into them repeatedly…

    …

    EGAD! The books have upset my forehead most brutishly. Such betrayal I shan't leave without recompense! So shall I degrade their honour by yanking them open and staring at all their shameful inner wordy bits like some kind of sexual vulture.

    …

    Capitalism, say you?

    Rabi-ul-Awwal 57th

    It seems this is how one feels when one's father is a Jack, one's mother is an ass, and one was raised on a farm run by perverts.

    Unlike all the happy little Wonderlander bank notes still remaining in my underwears, which are still happily crooning out Welsh renditions of 17th-century Italian parlor songs — the money of this world does next to nothing on its own!

    I say next to nothing, of course, because there is one condition where money doesn't need you to hold its needy ickle handypoo the whole time.

    Capitalism!

    Yes and indeed and yes, Diary Dear, there's this magic ritual called Capitalism where you draw a little chalk circle around a pile of money, call it "the Capital," make a bunch of special little names for Things and Sub-Things that said Capital is associated with, scream a considerable amount of words at a considerable amount of people — and before you know it, the Capital starts defecating this delightful purple slurry called "Profit" that you can throw at people until they all begrudgingly agree to give you "Assets" like motorcars and inkjet printers, which you can then crossbreed to make three-wheeled printy-things that beep exorbitantly and do your homework! And it also makes something called "Stocks" which lay "Nest Eggs" so you can make breakfast out of them in a "Timeshare!"

    Well, now I know what I'm going to pretend to be good at for the next million Wednesdays or so. This Capitalism thing is the closest thing to Wonder in this otherwise wonderless collection of sand and wetness and traffic accidents.

    …Which means there's a "Demand" for Wonder that I could "Supply!"

    OH, FRABJOUS DAY! I'm so lucky, you'd think it were my unbirthday or something.

    SPEAK OF THE DEVIL! I JUST CHECKED TODAY'S DATE! AND YOU'LL NEVER BELIEVE THIS…

    August 70th

    Oh, organized religion — such a card, thou'rt.

    Just this very morning, I had myself re-baptized as "Dr. Wondertainment" at twelve different churches, and I needed to threaten fewer zoo animals than anticipated to see it through!

    Now, when I go forth to teach my pile of capital to stop fermenting and start making wondertainy-toys for all yonder childfolks, I can do so whilst wearing a birth certificate that more accurately reflects my desire to spread wonder!

    Though I suppose I'm not much of a Dr. to speak of if I haven't any Dr.ate on my wall to speak of. And for one of those things, one ought to burble oneself through academia for years on end — while I wish to begin capitalism as soon as next week. One damned conundrum after another, say I. Phooey and phooey again!

    But soft — my brains are making another one of those "idea" doodads they make on occasion. What's that, brains? Speak up, say I, ere I grab the jolly claw hammer and spank you forthwith!

    …Oh! Right you are! I needn't go to any colleges in the plebeian capacity. If I were to simply traipse on up the nearest available dean and/or provost's bedchamber at 1:45 in the morning, squat on his chest, tickle his wee nosey, and whisper "twinkle, twinkle, little wreath / how I wonder what thou seeth / a degree you shall bequeath / or I'll drink your fucking teeth" — and it's cap and gown and the whole Gaudeamus Igitur and Floreat Etona by teatime!

    Oh, higher education — such a card, thou'rt.

…
…
…

    April 23rd

    Christ, I'm tired.

    Thankfully, ten minutes with Baxter in Resolutions was enough to find the reason that the Wondertainment of America division has been in Marketing Hell for so long. (Which is admittedly setting the bar pretty low for "thankfully", but we all know how the boys in Resolutions can be.)

    Some shadowy upstarts calling themselves "The Foundation" have been treating Wondertainment's products like they're Area 51 material.

    Far be it from me to say our products are for everyone. We've had our fair share of product recalls. But these Foundation chumps have been pulling out all the stops — red tape, misinformation, marketing censors, the works!

    It defies all common sense! This is the selfsame nation that has their kids playing all those video games full of corpses and prostitutes and listening to the kind of music that would make all the saints vomit with rage.

    Not that I'm against any of these things, of course. I'm no bloody Puritan. But the very minute that someone tries to distribute honest-to-God Childlike Wonder just for a change of pace, that's what they're going to play Cromwell about!

    It's like they're burning people for witchcraft on one end of the block, and on the other end, there's a casino. "Contradiction" doesn't begin to cover it.

    Christ, I'm tired. …did I already say that?

    Well, we all know how those Americans can be. No sense trying to change their minds. All the same, there's got to be some way to maintain our bottom line across the pond. I'm going to need all hands on deck to find a workaround.

    And time is of the essence, for it might already be too late. I've heard whispers that these Foundation types might have some presence in the UK as well.

    But something tells me we'll have to redouble our efforts in America before we can even think about our own protection. Over there, Wondertainment outlets are closing left and right. Half the assets we're sending them are going straight to escrow.

    April 24th

    Remember the overseas escrow account I was talking about?

    Somebody lost it.

    42.3 billion USD — not stolen, not frittered away, just lost. Like fucking car keys.

    There are not enough gin and tonics on the planet for this.

    April 25th

    GOD FUCKING DAMN IT. EVERY METHOD OF TRACING MONEY HAS ELUDED US. I KNOW FOR A FACT THE ESCROW DIDN'T JUST "DISAPPEAR," LINDA!

    Oh my god. Linda doesn't even work here anymore. Am I old enough to have a stroke?

    If I don't find the escrow in the next week, I swear to God…

    April 26th
    WHERE IS THE FUCKING ESCROW?!

    April 27th

    …

    I found the Escrow.

    …

    It came to my windowsill.
    escrow.png

    Hell if I know how it could fly. How it could even breathe. There's no space for any organs, it's just fucking letters floating in midair.

    …

    It's still there.

    Oh my God it's talking. I can't understand it for the life of me, but I swear it's the King's own English. Where the hell's my gun?!

    I'm making some of the words out.

    It says I've forgotten something. No. No, I haven't. What would you know?! You're not even a living thing! You're a bad typography joke! You wouldn't even make it as a bloody Family Guy cutaway gag! Go away! GO AWAY!

    NO, I DO NOT KNOW WHY A RAVEN IS LIKE A —

    …

    oh

    oh, no

    no

    no, no again, no once more, and another no, more no to follow

    what

    in

    the name of

    the happy little name-having thing

    have i become
    hatter.jpg

    April 28th dingledongletember or something 0th

    okay everybody i mean diary hello the silly me is back again please let this be the case.

    found the rabbit hole. thank god treacle that it's still there. i was half worried some idiot had filled it in. …which would never happen because it's a very long way to fall down, so there was never any danger in the first place. unless there was. because that wouldn't make sense. which is good.

    which means i'm back to my old self again and it never left me and i get to fucking keep it in my safety deposit box

    christ this isn't working

    no

    no i can't simply pretend i'm back

    what will they even say

    can i even go in

    will it even fIT ME ANYMORE

    …

    Okay, Mads. Wondertainment. Doc. Whatever I'm calling myself. Having another wobbly isn't going to fix anything.

    Deep breath…

    Maybe I'm not silly anymore. Maybe I'm not even serious.

    Maybe I'm neither.

    What if I'm a blend thereof? Or something else?

    …

    That settles it.

    I've brought Wonder to the Wonderless. Maybe this is only half the puzzle. Maybe if I hop down and do the reverse, I'll find the answers I've been looking for.

    I'll blend both sides of the spectrum together. Come out with some secret third thing that's better than both. And maybe, just maybe, my curiosity will be satisfied.

    …

    Curiouser and curiouser, innit?
 Yours Truly, The 1st Annual Unbirthday Ball

rating: +30
+
–
x
PoufyPoufson

Yours Truly, The 1st Annual Unbirthday Ball - by

PoufyPoufson

More by this author
The Well, Well,

 

"WELL, IT'S A HOLE AFTER ALL,"

"It's just, well, I remembered it being more… grandiose? When did we build a factory around it? Taxes, please? Do you remember?"

"I do recall it being around the time we tried to reissue Mr. Brass…" Taxes scoffed, "What a waste that was!"

"I shouldn't have listened to the Brothers… they ruined my vision," the Hatter shuddered, "I mean really, who plays with a toy that teaches arithmetic, that teaches subtraction and addition…"

"THE COPPER WAS JUST TOO EXPENSIVE…"

The Hatter looked at DEATH and furrowed his brow.

"I don't terribly want to think of margins right now," the Hatter hopped twice, "Not now or forever."

The three figures stood in a factory of brick, a castle of cogs and a portal of pearl: a well, a torn seam, a gate to a dream… the world from which Dr. Wondertainment first unfurled. It had been many years ago when he laid down his hat, he hadn't returned since his wallet grew fat.

"IS THIS REALLY WHAT YOU WANT?" said DEATH gazing off.

"I cannot stay here a moment longer. I cannot stomach anymore meetings and conferences and focus groups and lines going up, up, up. I'm sorry Taxes, you must understand." the Hatter tilted his head down to offer condolences.

"I understand." said Taxes.

"SO TIME WILL NOT COME?"

The Hatter's face soured.

"Time is the illness! Time is ill! It's Time, always Time, he is the robber elite, the thief, thief, thief! I have to be rid of him, I have to stay still, forever. I am so tired of moving. Do you understand?"

"WE ARE ALWAYS MOVING."

"Of course I am always moving! I do a little jig, I hold hands merrily, merrily, I fall down, yes I move, I move, but Time! Time moves too quickly, dances too fast, not a good party mate! Not at all!"

"So, home is better?" Taxes asked.

"Everything was better back then," the Hatter assured.

"NOW IS NOT THE SAME AS BACK THEN." replied DEATH.

"It will be the same. It will be safe. It will be fun. It has to be."

The three stepped towards the sightless pit ahead. Centrally located within the room, it whispered impolitely to the group: COME TO ME, FEED ME NOW, COME TO ME, FEED ME NOW.

"THERE IS NEVER A RETURNING."

"Why would I want to return to all of this? To fluorescent lights and spreadsheets?" the Hatter scoffed, stepping forward.

DEATH followed in step, floating forward.

"REMEMBER WHAT YOU WANTED WHEN YOU GAVE ME THE HAT."

The Hatter falls forward, down into the dark. DEATH follows kindly, as does Taxes.

The dark flurries around, with frightening speed, images of stuffed bears, folded paper planes, men in shackles and men in paint, of impossible candies and cavernous brains. Twisted and thorny vines crawled the walls of the pit, they reached out with teas and candies and toys, numerous small things, useless things, to peddle and whet.

These animate plants were keen to sell, to convince the Hatter all they need is right there, with papers and buttons and widgets and bells, everything he owned should be theirs, and theirs only. These are the vines he so longed to escape from, a final temptation as he falls down and down. Leave it all behind, he thinks, I will be free

Cards of hearts and spades and diamonds flutter past. A child's dress and a studded hat. A fluttering newspaper hovers in front of the three.

"The Queen is dead…" Taxes reads from the headline.

"The Queen is dead?" asks the Hatter.

"THE QUEEN IS DEAD." affirms DEATH.

The Hatter gulps as he falls and falls.

"Am I to believe that there's no set of laws?"

"NO SET OF LAWS?"

"No set of laws." Taxes mourns.

"IS THIS SO?"

"I think so." the Hatter said, "Can't be worse than being Incorporate!"

"I HOPE YOU ARE RIGHT, HATLESS HATTER. LET YOUR FUN BEGIN."

DEATH, Taxes, and the Hatter land suddenly in a pile of leaves and petals and mud with a heavy thud. The Hatter looks around, and sees great rigs and towers of splintered steel, each of them with a worn out sign: "PROPERTY OF WONDER BROS INC." These were the machinations of his former company, the fingers that stretched deep into the the glistening loam of Wonderland and scraped up chunks of congealed Dilly-Dally Oil.

"The rigs are still running?" Taxes asked.

"Yes, yes the Brothers remain intent on sucking the joy out like fat mosquitoes… I hate mosquitoes, they always spoil the tea… terrible company. Terrible company…" the Hatter shook off some dust from his coat. "I could do something so much better with all those gears and steel and- Bah! No, no, I have to stay on topic, yes… I need a smoke, probably… where are the alliums? Puff, Puff?"

"THEY EXPERIENCED POPULATION DECLINE DUE TO INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY…"

"Tch." the Hatter kicked a pebble. "Do you think I'd mooch some oil off one of those?"

"Why not just dig some of your own out?" Taxes offered. "It's much more economical!"

"IT IS DRY HERE."

The brush surrounding the clearing where the three landed was wiry and dusty, tufts of purple, dead grasses and sticks and shoots. A well-trodden path lay ahead, seeming to venture into the taller fields of gregarious grasses, further towards the hills where the rigs shot out of the ground like indignant teenagers. DEATH seemed to be staring at the sky while Taxes and the Hatter deign go further into the grasses.

"Come on, friend! It's not a smoke without DEATH around the corner! Aren't you coming?" Taxes plead.

"No, no, surely he's thinking about abandoning me, just like Time did, and Mr. Burgundy… well, he'd be in bad company." The Hatter chucked a pebble at DEATH in protest.

"I'M NOT ABANDONING YOU, YOU COD! DEATH NEVER LEAVES." The pebble missed DEATH narrowly.

"So you're coming to smoke, then?" the Hatter asked.

"NO. I WILL CATCH UP LATER."

 
 
 
The Royal Roach

 

The grasses were dull, having suffered the drought of oil in the area, but still, they lived up to their name. The Hatter frolicked along the path through the grasses, eavesdropping on the conversations that flowed from the flowers of the gregarious grasses:

"I think I heard someone fall from the sky?" one of them chattered, hushed and suspicious.

"Is it more of the suited men? I don't like them, they're loud and they put up those ugly gray ladders!" another replied.

"Will you two grow a grain? Nobody fell from the sky, that does't happen anymore…" A grumpier grass protested.

"Some things never change!" The Hatter mused.

"Some things never change…" Taxes glumly echoed.

Though their purple and blue had faded, once candy-pink and teal, their propensity for gossip was still very much real. The Hatter, however, had a one track mind. Eavesdropping was fine enough, he needed to find something to puff. And despite his fixation, he noticed a vine reach out to try and trip him-

"Hey, mister, I don't recognize you? Are you the man they say fell from the sky, the great blue?" One of the grasses yawned. It grabbed the Hatter gently, intent on an answer.

"Has it been so long, so terribly long? I'm the Tea Party Hatter, I'm sure you must know of me!"

"No, that can't be right, you haven't got a hat. And nobody drinks tea anymore, that's for geezers!" the Grass teased.

"I haven't got a hat anymore, but it's me in the flesh-"

"Shouldn't we be finding some oil to smoke?" Taxes interrupted.

"Right, right, yes. I am terribly peckish, say, gumptious grass, do you know where I can find something inhalable, a hookah, some oil, something to smoke, kindly?" The Hatter asked, fidgeting against the vines wrapped around him.

"Something to smoke? I don't smoke-" The grass deadpanned. It unwound a wind to point up above, "-But they do."

It was pointing to one of the rigs nearest to the field. Within walking distance, to boot.

"Mads, they said the-"

"I heard, I heard. I don't want to go near those things, they're ugly, they're boring and they-"

"They have oil…" Taxes reminded.

"Fine," The Hatter waved his hands about. "We climb the rig. But I don't want to be caught by the suits! We better not be! Thank you, Señor Grassio, we will be off to smoke. I would invite you, but you're a bit, err- flammable?"

"Fine, fine! Leave! I never needed you anyways! I'm not into people-definitely-did-not-fall-from-the-sky anyways!" The grass pouted, and let go of the Hatter.

They clanked up the steps, wary of any signs of workers or surveillance, but this rig seemed to almost have been abandoned. It was dusty and draped in disrepair- very little signs of present activity, and it certainly wasn't actively drilling. It was a few minutes of spiraling up the scaffolding before they reached the top of the rig, a large set of platforms wrapped around the extractor, the terminus for the pipes that permeated the wondrous soil below.

Taxes immediately rummaged around the spare barrels and tins designed to store the oil, but the Hatter simply rested against the rusted rails and looked out at the stretched of wooded expanse ahead of the rig. Clusters of colossal flowers and mushrooms dwarfed by the towering rigs, distant fields of dull gray death from where his fingers had touched, and further off, no doubt, his old stomping yard.

"Here we are, then! I found a tin, filled with oil. Have you got a pipe already?" Taxes asked, producing a crumpled metal tin, tarnished and browned.

The Hatter pulled out a plain glass pipe and lighter. He absent-mindedly handed the pipe to Taxes, who filled it with the pearlescent fluid. It took a few attempts to get it to catch, but eventually it did start smoking, producing dark purple fumes with dazzling glimmers of light speckled throughout.

"Why did I have to leave this place?" The Hatter coughed, sputtering out smoke.

"No clue. But it looks like things have happened in your absence."

"What do you mean?"

Taxes turned the Hatter to the other direction, pointing off in the distance where a faint city lay. The Hatter squinted, forcing his eyes to comb the horizon: A castle town, crumbled and abandoned, but most importantly, stamped with regal emblems that had ruled over his world so long ago.

"The queen is dead…" The Hatter mumbled to himself.

"I believe so, yes!" Taxes replied, blowing circles.

"I could be King…" Hatter muses, playing with a gear that had flung from a clock. "Kings get the best croquet mallets."

"You could be King!" Taxes agreed.

There is much to be done.

 
 
The Proper Politics

 

The Cupmaster is not typically a nervous man. Sixty years of service, sixty years of furnishing and stylizing all manner of nobility, of barons and dukes and even princes of hearts, and yet this, this was a time to sweat. The Cupmaster had never heard of the Hatter before the coup. Who wears hats anymore, anyways? In the aptly aforementioned sixty years, the Cupmaster had never done a hat.

Though, he hadn't done many cups, either.

Interpreting the purchase orders written by the Hatter and his council had proven to be a conundrum. At one point, he had been tasked with turning the luminous chandelier into a fully edible cake, perhaps to be dropped on the guests to celebrate the crowning. However, the Cupmaster managed to convince him of this impossibility, the ceilings had been lifted from 40 meters to infinity, and the Cupmaster was not very good at climbing.

Still, he had laid out a regal cloth upon the central banquet table, and ordered the finest of leaded glass instruments and utensils for eating. The drapes, he felt, we meant to match the cloths upon the table, for everything to be this harmonious tasteful, and subtly lavish production. It had to be made worth the attendees' time, what with the ordeal of navigating all of the labyrinthian halls installed at the whim of the would-be-king. The bears were constantly shuffling about, adding embroideries and buttons wherever a naked surface was found.

The Cupmaster was not fond of the bears. They were constantly frollicking and mucking about, the ones who laid the tile and grout, who toiled endlessly at construction projects, whose origins the Cupmaster did not know much about. They walked and danced and drew like children, with bodies of cloth and eyes of coal. But they labored away dutifully, efficiently, and loyally to the Hatter-King's goal. The Cupmaster himself was not nearly as certain. From generations of servants upon servants upon servants, he knew a cummerbund from lapel, a bergamot from mandarin, but he did not much care for the pastimes of infants.

Best bite his tongue-

"No, No, No- Lilac! Lilac, lilac, lilac!" the Hatter huffed. "What is wrong with you? Does this look like lilac? I want it lilac, not purple! My friends- Hate! Purple… but they like lilac, and I need lilac. No, happy, happy, happy- I'll do it myself!"

He shook his frock coat as if trying to rid it of something before producing a blade from one of his seemingly endless pockets. Gently folding the table cloth up and off of the table in front, he laid his hand on the table.

"I can assure you, your grace, we can find-" the Cupmaster panicked.

"Quiet! I am counting! Mathing! Shhh-" the Hatter mumbled to himself: "One, Two, Three, and-!"

In quick, quiet fury, the blade falls, briskly severing one, two, three fingers from the Hatter's right hand. A brief wince and sharp inhale is all he produces before the fingers are plucked and plopped into his mouth agape. The Cupmaster shrieked, fraught with horror and confusion.

"Not as good," the Hatter says between chews, "As ladyfingers-"

He spits out the chewed mass he had collected against his cheek onto the floor. Once flesh, now a sticky clump of sparkles.

"Chop-chop! Our friends will be here any day now!" He says, before kicking the clump down the hall a bit. The Hatter curtsies and looks expectantly at the clump on the ground- "Aha!"

It twitches and grows, and somewhat glows- creases become valleys and valleys become curves, and as it increases in size, it contorts until a silhouette springs forth, garnished neatly- with two little eyes. From the speck of sticky Wondergunk, comes another one- complete with an elegant frock and hat, much like the Hatter's own.

"Dr. Styletainment- No, we'll work on the name later… you must work quickly, dress the hall, please, please, and!" the Hatter looks at the Cupmaster with boredom, "Get this thing something to wear."

"What's wrong with my suit?" the Cupmaster frowns.

"It's dated." The Hatter and his new yes-man say in unison.

"New, new, new, everything must be new! Shiny, buttons! Joy, Joy, Joy! Out with the old, out with the hearts and clubs and spades and diamonds- well, I'm okay with diamonds. But everything else, new, better, funner! Do you understand?" The Hatter points at the tablecloth. "This must go."

"It's too dark for the room, reminds me of elephant tongue. That's not what you want, is it?" the yes-man asks.

"Yes, yes, exactly! It's too, elephant-y! That's exactly it. You understand it! Flawless! Great work! Take care of that while I go do very important things!" the Hatter scatters off, up the stairs, suspended in a flurry of scurrying builder bears, each carrying out the various agendas set by the yes-court, the whims of the soon to be king. The tallest order of all, fixing the dullness, the drabness, the not-at-all-wondrousness, that had to be carried out before the crowning.

The Hatter cared not for the architecture of buildings, and so the avatars severed from his being were tasked with draping the halls and corridors and buttresses with towering mountains of cloth, fabric, plaid, with gears that turned large clocks and springs, with rooms that popped like jacks in boxes, with a crown at the top of this citadel designed to mirror that which would soon rest on the head of the Hatter, one that waived away Wondertainment, and instead, promised nothing but autocratic wonder.

"Oh good, you're back!" said a man much like him, save dressed and colored flat. "There are matters to discuss," said Bureautainment, anointed Wondercrat. The Hatter, the King, waves his hands:

"It is slow, it is slow, it is far too slow. Who is leading the bears? Look at my fingers! I said lilac, and he brought me purple. Not even tyrian purple! It's too atomic, too atomic. All of the friends, all of the friends-"

"Well, I wanted to convene, there are matters at hand," Bureautainment decried. If the Hatter must reign, so too must the king meddle in matters of land. "What of the brothers?"

"Let them eat cake! But the macarons are for VIPs, only. Very Imaginative People! That they are not," The Hatter yawned. "What a boring idea."

"Do we send an invitation?" the Wondercrat asked, troubled trenches forming on his face.

"No," said the Hatter, "It'd be a waste!"

"Well, then, I guess we should make do." the yes-man resigned. "The builder-bears have made steady progress on the changes to the castle, which should be done in time for the coronation-"

"Unbirthday Ball." The Hatter corrected.

"Unbirthday Ball, right, yes. My apologies."

"You are humbly forgiven. Please hurry, though. I need to rest. It's such hard work today!"

"Well, there are some troubles, the head helper of the builders asked, is it so necessary to have the clock tower built of clocks? His brigade talks of bricks, since clocks have less stock… The tower that rests on a jack in a box, well, that was no task, but the builder bear barracks grow weary of clocks."

"It's non-negotiable, I fear. They will have to make do. Clocks clog time…" The Hatter frowns. "Everything will be perfect, everything will work perfectly. This is perfect."

"Of course, my liege." The Yes Man recuses himself.

The Hatter paces in figures of eight.

"WHAT'S THE FUSS? AREN'T YOU HAVING FUN?" DEATH looms over his shoulder.

"They're all a bunch of idiots. I-D-I-O-T-S! Capital S! What did they all do without me, without their King! The sanest of them all, me, yes, me. Why don't they get it?"

"YOU'RE NOT QUITE THE MAN WHO SAT IN THE SAND…"

"No, not quite, but I will be, soon. Soon." The Hatter sighed. "Tell me, dearly departed, what color must a banquet hall be draped?"

"SUBURBAN BEIGE."

"Lilac, of course- No! Beige? Are you some sort of calvinist now, then?" The Hatter scoffed, pacing in circles.

"TIME ASKS OF YOU."

"Time-" The Hatter squints, "Is on holiday. What matter of it to me? The King!"

"SHOULD I TELL TIME YOU'RE HAVING FUN WITHOUT HIM, THEN?"

"I suppose. But do not invite him to the ball. He will spoil the madeleines."

DEATH leaves, floating through the window and off the sill, having suffered the gloating past his fill- the Hatter waves goodbye, pacing again in his room. That DEATH still hung around, even now in this world, that Time still asked for him, it loomed in his mind. Through feverish whimsy, the thoughts linger, forming…

"What of my subjects?" The Hatter mutters. He wanders again where DEATH did us part, surveying the land unfurled from his fort: the pastures, the parishes, the mercantile carriages- the land of which his finances had greedily disparaged. What of the people who knew not of toys, the labor that supplied him with oil? Should we all not be partiers?

Time is not here now. Time does not reach here.

He laughs.

"Let there not be a single article of boredom, here in Wonderland, from this day on! Taxes can rot! Time can rot!"

Once was a queen, once was a king, now only lies the ruler- the King of all the Tarts. And everyone loves tarts.

 
 
The Coronation

 

It had been a splendidly lurid affair, with attendees from all corners of Wonderland in attendance. The Blue Catterfly had even traveled to the ball, despite his advanced age and infirm, and was happily huffing away at the all-you-can-smoke Dilly Dally & Hashish bar, stocked with the finest inebriating agents from the flipside- exotic earthly substances that could kill the sludgiest of Wonderlandian hookah den denigrates.

The decorations, rightfully amended to suit the fine tastes of the soon-to-be King, were the embodiment of peace and joy- especially the balloons, provided in-kind by all those found guilty of First Degree Sternness in the recent weeks, sentenced to gleeful inflation! The idea had been suggested by Taxes as a more budget-friendly alternative to importing Swiss Clouds from the skies of Basel. The Hatter protested at first, but eventually turned around on the basis of combining opposition suppression with decoration- he quite liked the look of the balloons.

Monsieur Jacquisine Smythingfarfarawelli had been hired as caterer, providing the most exquisite pastries and desserts. There was to be- per order of the King- only sweets and desserts, with the exception of pea and lamb aspic, an old favorite of DEATH's. There had been sword-swallowers, fire-eaters, and the builder-bears had graciously provided many sets of jacks-in-boxes and cloth-mime bussers, complete with human leather (source unsourced!)

"You know, I knew him before he was famous," Taxes said to the Haberdasher and his wife.

"Really? What was he like? I must confess I hadn't heard of him before he announced he was taking the throne!" The wife replied. She was dressed in a beautiful satin gown, studded with star-shaped sequins and tailored to effortlessly accommodate her visage above the bust- the neck and head of a yellowtail snapper.

"Well, you see, he has always been industrious and social, yes, a hedon indeed!" Taxes gloated.

"It will be good for business. The textiles here are immaculate!" The Haberdasher marveled, taking a swig of the Braggadocious Brandy he had been rather keen of the entire party.

"Immaculate!" His wife parroted.

"Immaculate," Taxes embellished, "And very luxurious. It was not cheap setting up this ball, not cheap at all, but I helped put it all together, yes!"

"Very impressive." The Haberdasher agreed, as did his wife.

Taxes had been running around entertaining all of the guests and visitors. Though there was a vast array of knick-knacks and treats and pleasantries, he still felt it prudent to fraternize with all of the future citizenry. However, the main event, the coronation proceedings, were due to begin any moment now, and he was hesitant to delve terribly deep into any one conversation, lest he miss the start of the ceremony. This was, of course, his trusted responsibility, as one of the Hatter's longest and most trusted friends- a seat in the Yes Court was not nearly as fitting, nor a coveted ministership- yes, this was the most important place Taxes could be.

"Attention all partiers, revelers, and future subjects of his majesty: please welcome, to kick off this Unbirthday Ball: the Unbirthday Ballet, presented by Misters Tumble and Twirl!:" The Yes-man of the Ministry of Petty Complaints had been tasked with leading the ceremony and attention-seeking. The opening act, a dance performed by two Little Misters, never released, was to be watched by all attendees before the king was to be crowned.

Mr. Tumble, a fragile, crystalline man, performed his acrobatics with grace and anxiety. Mr. Twirl performed his contortionist act with freakish delight, and the crowds ooh'd and ahh'd at the mystical balance between the two's movements.

Taxes paid acute attention to every reaction, scanning the faces for signs of boredom and sternness- signs of future dissent. Instead, the two misters carried along, wowing the crowd and finally climaxing with Mr. Tumble cascading from atop the chandelier and shattering on the ground- with the onlookers gasping aloud.

Mr. Twirl then produced a bejeweled dustbin and broom, sweeping Mr. Tumble's shards up, and gathering them into a tumbler. He shook the tumbler back and forth, gently spinning and twisting upward. At last he release and flung the contents to the floor, revealing a tiny Mr. Tumble, perfectly intact.

The audience applauded and marveled and gasped. But Mr. Twirl waved his hands, a flourish to silence, and proceeded to slowly twist inwardly outward with bombast and violence. His arms intertwined, rubbery like jello, he turned into knots, ties, and then a giant birthday bow. Mr. Twirl continued stretching in all different manners, before exerting himself for the final act: he tied and tied, and knotted and knotted, and tangled and twirled into a great big rubber ball at least three ceilings tall.

The crowd erupted into hysterical applause.

"Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, those were our astoundingly talented Little Misters Tumble and Twirl: can you believe that they used to work a boring corporate job?" The Yes-Man of Petty Complaints commended, drawing attention back to the ceremony. "But now: the moment we are all here for…"

Up above, a Yes Man gulped.

"Is this really what we want?" whispered the Minister of Bouncy Fortifications to the Hatter.

This Yes Man, like all others, was concocted from a severed finger of the Hatter, a spitting image of the magnanimous soon-to-be-king.

"Of course it is, of course of course! The King gets the best biscuits, the best horses, the best games, yes, this is how it has to be. No more of the inane parties with the hares and mice and clocks and inanities, yes, this is where my life truly begins…" The Hatter glimmered, "Now, quiet, you, it's starting any moment now!"

A hollow, tinny drumroll began, and the chandelier above began to creak and croak, before suddenly free falling towards the banquet table below. The crowds shrieked and panicked and froze before the chandelier stopped with just inches to go. The lights went from a dull flicker to bright fluorescent blue, purple, and green.

"Ladies and Gentleman," The Yes Man Below continued escalating intensity,"Your new king, the best king, the Sanest King!"

The Chandelier had now revealed itself to be a platform with a golden studded throne, a throne where the Hatter was eagerly seated. He was surrounded by the rest of the Yes Court, who waited in place.

DEATH lurked just behind the Hatter, with a crown fashioned of pink and green plaid in hand. He lifted the crown, just above the Hatter's head, as the crowd's rapturous applause reached a feverish pitch.

"ARE YOU SURE YOU WANT THIS?" whispered DEATH.

"Yes, yes, the people are raving! Let's give them the show that I want! Hurry, hurry, hurry!" The Hatter anxiously fiddled with the armrests.

DEATH shrugged, and unceremoniously plopped the crown on the Hatter's matted hair. The crowd roared.

"Yes, yes, my adoring new subjects, young and old, pink and not-so-pink: It is I, your king, your most bestest belovedest, it is time now, for me to take the helm, the heaviest hat of all, the crown, the crown of all of Wonderland, yes, yes, please keep clapping, keep clapping from the tackiest chateau to the dingiest town!"

The Hatter, now the king, stepped off the chandelier and onto the ballroom floor. He waltzed towards the curtain that concealed the Great Unbirther.

"And now for my final act as a simple man, now, great subjects, I take the throne, I take the titled: I will be unborn, yes, turned anew, I will be unborn from a simple Hatter into what I always knew, your most excellent, wisest, handsomest, fairest, justest, humblest, and most importantly: your Sanest King!"

The Hatter pulled down the curtain with a theatrical flourish.

"ARE YOU HAVING FUN YET?" asked DEATH, poking from behind.

The Hatter simply ignored, and let himself be baptized by the candy-pink flesh.

 